1 Nephi 12
Chapter 12

1 Nephi 12:1
 1 And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Look, and
behold thy seed, and also the seed of thy brethren. And I looked
and beheld the land of promise; and I beheld multitudes of
people, yea, even as it were in number as many as the sand of the
sea.

1 Nephi 12:2
 2 And it came to pass that I beheld multitudes gathered together
to battle, one against the other; and I beheld wars, and rumors
of wars, and great slaughters with the sword among my people.

1 Nephi 12:3
 3 And it came to pass that I beheld many generations pass away,
after the manner of wars and contentions in the land; and I
beheld many cities, yea, even that I did not number them.

1 Nephi 12:4
 4 And it came to pass that I saw a mist of darkness on the face
of the land of promise; and I saw lightnings, and I heard
thunderings, and earthquakes, and all manner of tumultuous
noises; and I saw the earth and the rocks, that they rent; and I
saw mountains tumbling into pieces; and I saw the plains of the
earth, that they were broken up; and I saw many cities that they
were sunk; and I saw many that they were burned with fire; and I
saw many that did tumble to the earth, because of the quaking
thereof.

1 Nephi 12:5
 5 And it came to pass after I saw these things, I saw the vapor
of darkness, that it passed from off the face of the earth; and
behold, I saw multitudes who had not fallen because of the great
and terrible judgments of the Lord.

1 Nephi 12:6
 6 And I saw the heavens open, and the Lamb of God descending out
of heaven; and he came down and showed himself unto them.

1 Nephi 12:7
 7 And I also saw and bear record that the Holy Ghost fell upon
twelve others; and they were ordained of God, and chosen.

1 Nephi 12:8
 8 And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the twelve
disciples of the Lamb, who are chosen to minister unto thy seed.

1 Nephi 12:9
 9 And he said unto me: Thou rememberest the twelve apostles of
the Lamb? Behold they are they who shall judge the twelve tribes
of Israel; wherefore, the twelve ministers of thy seed shall be
judged of them; for ye are of the house of Israel.

1 Nephi 12:10
 10 And these twelve ministers whom thou beholdest shall judge
thy seed. And, behold, they are righteous forever; for because
of their faith in the Lamb of God their garments are made white
in his blood.

1 Nephi 12:11
 11 And the angel said unto me: Look! And I looked, and beheld
three generations pass away in righteousness; and their garments
were white even like unto the Lamb of God. And the angel said
unto me: These are made white in the blood of the Lamb, because
of their faith in him.

1 Nephi 12:12
 12 And I, Nephi, also saw many of the fourth generation who
passed away in righteousness.

1 Nephi 12:13
 13 And it came to pass that I saw the multitudes of the earth
gathered together.

1 Nephi 12:14
 14 And the angel said unto me: Behold thy seed, and also the
seed of thy brethren.

1 Nephi 12:15
 15 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the people of my
seed gathered together in multitudes against the seed of my
brethren; and they were gathered together to battle.

1 Nephi 12:16
 16 And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the fountain of
filthy water which thy father saw; yea, even the river of which
he spake; and the depths thereof are the depths of hell.

1 Nephi 12:17
 17 And the mists of darkness are the temptations of the devil,
which blindeth the eyes, and hardeneth the hearts of the children
of men, and leadeth them away into broad roads, that they perish
and are lost.

1 Nephi 12:18
 18 And the large and spacious building, which thy father saw, is
vain imaginations and the pride of the children of men. And a
great and a terrible gulf divideth them; yea, even the word of
the justice of the Eternal God, and the Messiah who is the Lamb
of God, of whom the Holy Ghost beareth record, from the beginning
of the world until this time, and from this time henceforth and
forever.

1 Nephi 12:19
 19 And while the angel spake these words, I beheld and saw that
the seed of my brethren did contend against my seed, according to
the word of the angel; and because of the pride of my seed, and
the temptations of the devil, I beheld that the seed of my
brethren did overpower the people of my seed.

1 Nephi 12:20
 20 And it came to pass that I beheld, and saw the people of the
seed of my brethren that they had overcome my seed; and they went
forth in multitudes upon the face of the land.

1 Nephi 12:21
 21 And I saw them gathered together in multitudes; and I saw
wars and rumors of wars among them; and in wars and rumors of
wars I saw many generations pass away.

1 Nephi 12:22
 22 And the angel said unto me: Behold these shall dwindle in
unbelief.

1 Nephi 12:23
 23 And it came to pass that I beheld, after they had dwindled in
unbelief they became a dark, and loathsome, and a filthy people,
full of idleness and all manner of abominations.

