2 Nephi 15
Chapter 15

2 Nephi 15:1
 1 And then will I sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved,
touching his vineyard. My well-beloved hath a vineyard in a very
fruitful hill.

2 Nephi 15:2
 2 And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and
planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst
of it, and also made a wine-press therein; and he looked that it
should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.

2 Nephi 15:3
 3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge,
I pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.

2 Nephi 15:4
 4 What could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not
done in it? Wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth
grapes it brought forth wild grapes.

2 Nephi 15:5
 5 And now go to; I will tell you what I will do to my
vineyard--I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be
eaten up; and I will break down the wall thereof, and it shall be
trodden down;

2 Nephi 15:6
 6 And I will lay it waste; it shall not be pruned nor digged;
but there shall come up briers and thorns; I will also command
the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.

2 Nephi 15:7
 7 For the vineyard of the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel,
and the men of Judah his pleasant plant; and he looked for
judgment, and behold, oppression; for righteousness, but behold,
a cry.

2 Nephi 15:8
 8 Wo unto them that join house to house, till there can be no
place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth!

2 Nephi 15:9
 9 In mine ears, said the Lord of Hosts, of a truth many houses
shall be desolate, and great and fair cities without inhabitant.

2 Nephi 15:10
 10 Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed
of a homer shall yield an ephah.

2 Nephi 15:11
 11 Wo unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may
follow strong drink, that continue until night, and wine inflame
them!

2 Nephi 15:12
 12 And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine
are in their feasts; but they regard not the work of the Lord,
neither consider the operation of his hands.

2 Nephi 15:13
 13 Therefore, my people are gone into captivity, because they
have no knowledge; and their honorable men are famished, and
their multitude dried up with thirst.

2 Nephi 15:14
 14 Therefore, hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth
without measure; and their glory, and their multitude, and their
pomp, and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.

2 Nephi 15:15
 15 And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man
shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled.

2 Nephi 15:16
 16 But the Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God
that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness.

2 Nephi 15:17
 17 Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste
places of the fat ones shall strangers eat.

2 Nephi 15:18
 18 Wo unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin
as it were with a cart rope;

2 Nephi 15:19
 19 That say: Let him make speed, hasten his work, that we may
see it; and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh
and come, that we may know it.

2 Nephi 15:20
 20 Wo unto them that call evil good, and good evil, that put
darkness for light, and light for darkness, that put bitter for
sweet, and sweet for bitter!

2 Nephi 15:21
 21 Wo unto the wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own
sight!

2 Nephi 15:22
 22 Wo unto the mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to
mingle strong drink;

2 Nephi 15:23
 23 Who justify the wicked for reward, and take away the
righteousness of the righteous from him!

2 Nephi 15:24
 24 Therefore, as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame
consumeth the chaff, their root shall be rottenness, and their
blossoms shall go up as dust; because they have cast away the law
of the Lord of Hosts, and despised the word of the Holy One of
Israel.

2 Nephi 15:25
 25 Therefore, is the anger of the Lord kindled against his
people, and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and
hath smitten them; and the hills did tremble, and their carcasses
were torn in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger is
not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

2 Nephi 15:26
 26 And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and
will hiss unto them from the end of the earth; and behold, they
shall come with speed swiftly; none shall be weary nor stumble
among them.

2 Nephi 15:27
 27 None shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of
their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken;

2 Nephi 15:28
 28 Whose arrows shall be sharp, and all their bows bent, and
their horses' hoofs shall be counted like flint, and their wheels
like a whirlwind, their roaring like a lion.

2 Nephi 15:29
 29 They shall roar like young lions; yea, they shall roar, and
lay hold of the prey, and shall carry away safe, and none shall
deliver.

2 Nephi 15:30
 30 And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring
of the sea; and if they look unto the land, behold, darkness and
sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.

