2 Nephi 1
Chapter 1

2 Nephi 1:1
 1 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end
of teaching my brethren, our father, Lehi, also spake many things
unto them, and rehearsed unto them, how great things the Lord had
done for them in bringing them out of the land of Jerusalem.

2 Nephi 1:2
 2 And he spake unto them concerning their rebellions upon the
waters, and the mercies of God in sparing their lives, that they
were not swallowed up in the sea.

2 Nephi 1:3
 3 And he also spake unto them concerning the land of promise,
which they had obtained--how merciful the Lord had been in
warning us that we should flee out of the land of Jerusalem.

2 Nephi 1:4
 4 For, behold, said he, I have seen a vision, in which I know
that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we
should also have perished.

2 Nephi 1:5
 5 But, said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have
obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all
other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me
should be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord
hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever,
and also all those who should be led out of other countries by
the hand of the Lord.

2 Nephi 1:6
 6 Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the
Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land
save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord.

2 Nephi 1:7
 7 Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall
bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to
the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of
liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down
into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if
iniquity shall abound cursed shall be the land for their sakes,
but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever.

2 Nephi 1:8
 8 And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet
from the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations
would overrun the land, that there would be no place for an
inheritance.

2 Nephi 1:9
 9 Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as
those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem
shall keep his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of
this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that
they may possess this land unto themselves. And if it so be that
they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the
face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to
take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell
safely forever.

2 Nephi 1:10
 10 But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in
unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the
hand of the Lord--having a knowledge of the creation of the
earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvelous works of the
Lord from the creation of the world; having power given them to
do all things by faith; having all the commandments from the
beginning, and having been brought by his infinite goodness into
this precious land of promise--behold, I say, if the day shall
come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true
Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of
him that is just shall rest upon them.

2 Nephi 1:11
 11 Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give
unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of
their possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and
smitten.

2 Nephi 1:12
 12 Yea, as one generation passeth to another there shall be
bloodsheds, and great visitations among them; wherefore, my sons,
I would that ye would remember; yea, I would that ye would
hearken unto my words.

2 Nephi 1:13
 13 O that ye would awake; awake from a deep sleep, yea, even
from the sleep of hell, and shake off the awful chains by which
ye are bound, which are the chains which bind the children of
men, that they are carried away captive down to the eternal gulf
of misery and woe.

2 Nephi 1:14
 14 Awake! and arise from the dust, and hear the words of a
trembling parent, whose limbs ye must soon lay down in the cold
and silent grave, from whence no traveler can return; a few more
days and I go the way of all the earth.

2 Nephi 1:15
 15 But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul from hell; I have
beheld his glory, and I am encircled about eternally in the arms
of his love.

2 Nephi 1:16
 16 And I desire that ye should remember to observe the statutes
and the judgments of the Lord; behold, this hath been the anxiety
of my soul from the beginning.

2 Nephi 1:17
 17 My heart hath been weighed down with sorrow from time to
time, for I have feared, lest for the hardness of your hearts the
Lord your God should come out in the fulness of his wrath upon
you, that ye be cut off and destroyed forever;

2 Nephi 1:18
 18 Or, that a cursing should come upon you for the space of many
generations; and ye are visited by sword, and by famine, and are
hated, and are led according to the will and captivity of the
devil.

2 Nephi 1:19
 19 O my sons, that these things might not come upon you, but
that ye might be a choice and a favored people of the Lord. But
behold, his will be done; for his ways are righteousness forever.

2 Nephi 1:20
 20 And he hath said that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my
commandments ye shall prosper in the land; but inasmuch as ye
will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my
presence.

2 Nephi 1:21
 21 And now that my soul might have joy in you, and that my heart
might leave this world with gladness because of you, that I might
not be brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise
from the dust, my sons, and be men, and be determined in one mind
and in one heart, united in all things, that ye may not come down
into captivity;

2 Nephi 1:22
 22 That ye may not be cursed with a sore cursing; and also, that
ye may not incur the displeasure of a just God upon you, unto the
destruction, yea, the eternal destruction of both soul and body.

2 Nephi 1:23
 23 Awake, my sons; put on the armor of righteousness. Shake off
the chains with which ye are bound, and come forth out of
obscurity, and arise from the dust.

2 Nephi 1:24
 24 Rebel no more against your brother, whose views have been
glorious, and who hath kept the commandments from the time that
we left Jerusalem; and who hath been an instrument in the hands
of God, in bringing us forth into the land of promise; for were
it not for him, we must have perished with hunger in the
wilderness; nevertheless, ye sought to take away his life; yea,
and he hath suffered much sorrow because of you.

2 Nephi 1:25
 25 And I exceedingly fear and tremble because of you, lest he
shall suffer again; for behold, ye have accused him that he
sought power and authority over you; but I know that he hath not
sought for power nor authority over you, but he hath sought the
glory of God, and your own eternal welfare.

2 Nephi 1:26
 26 And ye have murmured because he hath been plain unto you. Ye
say that he hath used sharpness; ye say that he hath been angry
with you; but behold, his sharpness was the sharpness of the
power of the word of God, which was in him; and that which ye
call anger was the truth, according to that which is in God,
which he could not restrain, manifesting boldly concerning your
iniquities.

2 Nephi 1:27
 27 And it must needs be that the power of God must be with him,
even unto his commanding you that ye must obey. But behold, it
was not he, but it was the Spirit of the Lord which was in him,
which opened his mouth to utterance that he could not shut it.

2 Nephi 1:28
 28 And now my son, Laman, and also Lemuel and Sam, and also my
sons who are the sons of Ishmael, behold, if ye will hearken unto
the voice of Nephi ye shall not perish. And if ye will hearken
unto him I leave unto you a blessing, yea, even my first
blessing.

2 Nephi 1:29
 29 But if ye will not hearken unto him I take away my first
blessing, yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest upon him.

2 Nephi 1:30
 30 And now Zoram, I speak unto you: Behold, thou art the servant
of Laban; nevertheless, thou hast been brought out of the land of
Jerusalem, and I know that thou art a true friend unto my son,
Nephi, forever.

2 Nephi 1:31
 31 Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful thy seed shall be
blessed with his seed, that they dwell in prosperity long upon
the face of this land; and nothing, save it shall be iniquity
among them, shall harm or disturb their prosperity upon the face
of this land forever.

2 Nephi 1:32
 32 Wherefore, if ye shall keep the commandments of the Lord, the
Lord hath consecrated this land for the security of thy seed with
the seed of my son.

