2 Nephi 12
Chapter 12

2 Nephi 12:1
 1 The word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw concerning Judah
and Jerusalem:

2 Nephi 12:2
 2 And it shall come to pass in the last days, when the mountain
of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the
mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations
shall flow unto it.

2 Nephi 12:3
 3 And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to
the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and
he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for
out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from
Jerusalem.

2 Nephi 12:4
 4 And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many
people: and they shall beat their swords into plow-shares, and
their spears into pruning-hooks--nation shall not lift up sword
against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.

2 Nephi 12:5
 5 O house of Jacob, come ye and let us walk in the light of the
Lord; yea, come, for ye have all gone astray, every one to his
wicked ways.

2 Nephi 12:6
 6 Therefore, O Lord, thou hast forsaken thy people, the house of
Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and hearken
unto soothsayers like the Philistines, and they please themselves
in the children of strangers.

2 Nephi 12:7
 7 Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there
any end of their treasures; their land is also full of horses,
neither is there any end of their chariots.

2 Nephi 12:8
 8 Their land is also full of idols; they worship the work of
their own hands, that which their own fingers have made.

2 Nephi 12:9
 9 And the mean man boweth not down, and the great man humbleth
himself not, therefore, forgive him not.

2 Nephi 12:10
 10 O ye wicked ones, enter into the rock, and hide thee in the
dust, for the fear of the Lord and the glory of his majesty shall
smite thee.

2 Nephi 12:11
 11 And it shall come to pass that the lofty looks of man shall
be humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and
the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day.

2 Nephi 12:12
 12 For the day of the Lord of Hosts soon cometh upon all
nations, yea, upon every one; yea, upon the proud and lofty, and
upon every one who is lifted up, and he shall be brought low.

2 Nephi 12:13
 13 Yea, and the day of the Lord shall come upon all the cedars
of Lebanon, for they are high and lifted up; and upon all the
oaks of Bashan;

2 Nephi 12:14
 14 And upon all the high mountains, and upon all the hills, and
upon all the nations which are lifted up, and upon every people;

2 Nephi 12:15
 15 And upon every high tower, and upon every fenced wall;

2 Nephi 12:16
 16 And upon all the ships of the sea, and upon all the ships of
Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures.

2 Nephi 12:17
 17 And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the
haughtiness of men shall be made low; and the Lord alone shall be
exalted in that day.

2 Nephi 12:18
 18 And the idols he shall utterly abolish.

2 Nephi 12:19
 19 And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the
caves of the earth, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon them
and the glory of his majesty shall smite them, when he ariseth to
shake terribly the earth.

2 Nephi 12:20
 20 In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his
idols of gold, which he hath made for himself to worship, to the
moles and to the bats;

2 Nephi 12:21
 21 To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the tops of the
ragged rocks, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon them and
the majesty of his glory shall smite them, when he ariseth to
shake terribly the earth.

2 Nephi 12:22
 22 Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils; for
wherein is he to be accounted of?

