2 Nephi 18
Chapter 18

2 Nephi 18:1
 1 Moreover, the word of the Lord said unto me: Take thee a great
roll, and write in it with a man's pen, concerning
Maher-shalal-hash-baz.

2 Nephi 18:2
 2 And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the
priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.

2 Nephi 18:3
 3 And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived and bare a
son. Then said the Lord to me: Call his name,
Maher-shalal-hash-baz.

2 Nephi 18:4
 4 For behold, the child shall not have knowledge to cry, My
father, and my mother, before the riches of Damascus and the
spoil of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of Assyria.

2 Nephi 18:5
 5 The Lord spake also unto me again, saying:

2 Nephi 18:6
 6 Forasmuch as this people refuseth the waters of Shiloah that
go softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah's son;

2 Nephi 18:7
 7 Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth up upon them the
waters of the river, strong and many, even the king of Assyria
and all his glory; and he shall come up over all his channels,
and go over all his banks.

2 Nephi 18:8
 8 And he shall pass through Judah; he shall overflow and go
over, he shall reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of
his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel.

2 Nephi 18:9
 9 Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in
pieces; and give ear all ye of far countries; gird yourselves,
and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall
be broken in pieces.

2 Nephi 18:10
 10 Take counsel together, and it shall come to naught; speak the
word, and it shall not stand; for God is with us.

2 Nephi 18:11
 11 For the Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand, and
instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people,
saying:

2 Nephi 18:12
 12 Say ye not, A confederacy, to all to whom this people shall
say, A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.

2 Nephi 18:13
 13 Sanctify the Lord of Hosts himself, and let him be your fear,
and let him be your dread.

2 Nephi 18:14
 14 And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of
stumbling, and for a rock of offense to both the houses of
Israel, for a gin and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

2 Nephi 18:15
 15 And many among them shall stumble and fall, and be broken,
and be snared, and be taken.

2 Nephi 18:16
 16 Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.

2 Nephi 18:17
 17 And I will wait upon the Lord, that hideth his face from the
house of Jacob, and I will look for him.

2 Nephi 18:18
 18 Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me are
for signs and for wonders in Israel from the Lord of Hosts, which
dwelleth in Mount Zion.

2 Nephi 18:19
 19 And when they shall say unto you: Seek unto them that have
familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep and mutter--should
not a people seek unto their God for the living to hear from the
dead?

2 Nephi 18:20
 20 To the law and to the testimony; and if they speak not
according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.

2 Nephi 18:21
 21 And they shall pass through it hardly bestead and hungry; and
it shall come to pass that when they shall be hungry, they shall
fret themselves, and curse their king and their God, and look
upward.

2 Nephi 18:22
 22 And they shall look unto the earth and behold trouble, and
darkness, dimness of anguish, and shall be driven to darkness.

