Jacob 7
Chapter 7

Jacob 7:1
 1 And now it came to pass after some years had passed away,
there came a man among the people of Nephi, whose name was
Sherem.

Jacob 7:2
 2 And it came to pass that he began to preach among the people,
and to declare unto them that there should be no Christ. And he
preached many things which were flattering unto the people; and
this he did that he might overthrow the doctrine of Christ.

Jacob 7:3
 3 And he labored diligently that he might lead away the hearts
of the people, insomuch that he did lead away many hearts; and he
knowing that I, Jacob, had faith in Christ who should come, he
sought much opportunity that he might come unto me.

Jacob 7:4
 4 And he was learned, that he had a perfect knowledge of the
language of the people; wherefore, he could use much flattery,
and much power of speech, according to the power of the devil.

Jacob 7:5
 5 And he had hope to shake me from the faith, notwithstanding
the many revelations and the many things which I had seen
concerning these things; for I truly had seen angels, and they
had ministered unto me. And also, I had heard the voice of the
Lord speaking unto me in very word, from time to time; wherefore,
I could not be shaken.

Jacob 7:6
 6 And it came to pass that he came unto me, and on this wise did
he speak unto me, saying: Brother Jacob, I have sought much
opportunity that I might speak unto you; for I have heard and
also know that thou goest about much, preaching that which ye
call the gospel, or the doctrine of Christ.

Jacob 7:7
 7 And ye have led away much of this people that they pervert the
right way of God, and keep not the law of Moses which is the
right way; and convert the law of Moses into the worship of a
being which ye say shall come many hundred years hence. And now
behold, I, Sherem, declare unto you that this is blasphemy; for
no man knoweth of such things; for he cannot tell of things to
come. And after this manner did Sherem contend against me.

Jacob 7:8
 8 But behold, the Lord God poured in his Spirit into my soul,
insomuch that I did confound him in all his words.

Jacob 7:9
 9 And I said unto him: Deniest thou the Christ who shall come?
And he said: If there should be a Christ, I would not deny him;
but I know that there is no Christ, neither has been, nor ever
will be.

Jacob 7:10
 10 And I said unto him: Believest thou the scriptures? And he
said, Yea.

Jacob 7:11
 11 And I said unto him: Then ye do not understand them; for they
truly testify of Christ. Behold, I say unto you that none of the
prophets have written, nor prophesied, save they have spoken
concerning this Christ.

Jacob 7:12
 12 And this is not all--it has been made manifest unto me, for I
have heard and seen; and it also has been made manifest unto me
by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, I know if there should
be no atonement made all mankind must be lost.

Jacob 7:13
 13 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Show me a sign by
this power of the Holy Ghost, in the which ye know so much.

Jacob 7:14
 14 And I said unto him: What am I that I should tempt God to
show unto thee a sign in the thing which thou knowest to be true?
Yet thou wilt deny it, because thou art of the devil.
Nevertheless, not my will be done; but if God shall smite thee,
let that be a sign unto thee that he has power, both in heaven
and in earth; and also, that Christ shall come. And thy will, O
Lord, be done, and not mine.

Jacob 7:15
 15 And it came to pass that when I, Jacob, had spoken these
words, the power of the Lord came upon him, insomuch that he fell
to the earth. And it came to pass that he was nourished for the
space of many days.

Jacob 7:16
 16 And it came to pass that he said unto the people: Gather
together on the morrow, for I shall die; wherefore, I desire to
speak unto the people before I shall die.

Jacob 7:17
 17 And it came to pass that on the morrow the multitude were
gathered together; and he spake plainly unto them and denied the
things which he had taught them, and confessed the Christ, and
the power of the Holy Ghost, and the ministering of angels.

Jacob 7:18
 18 And he spake plainly unto them, that he had been deceived by
the power of the devil. And he spake of hell, and of eternity,
and of eternal punishment.

Jacob 7:19
 19 And he said: I fear lest I have committed the unpardonable
sin, for I have lied unto God; for I denied the Christ, and said
that I believed the scriptures; and they truly testify of him.
And because I have thus lied unto God I greatly fear lest my case
shall be awful; but I confess unto God.

Jacob 7:20
 20 And it came to pass that when he had said these words he
could say no more, and he gave up the ghost.

Jacob 7:21
 21 And when the multitude had witnessed that he spake these
things as he was about to give up the ghost, they were astonished
exceedingly; insomuch that the power of God came down upon them,
and they were overcome that they fell to the earth.

Jacob 7:22
 22 Now, this thing was pleasing unto me, Jacob, for I had
requested it of my Father who was in heaven; for he had heard my
cry and answered my prayer.

Jacob 7:23
 23 And it came to pass that peace and the love of God was
restored again among the people; and they searched the
scriptures, and hearkened no more to the words of this wicked
man.

Jacob 7:24
 24 And it came to pass that many means were devised to reclaim
and restore the Lamanites to the knowledge of the truth; but it
all was vain, for they delighted in wars and bloodshed, and they
had an eternal hatred against us, their brethren. And they
sought by the power of their arms to destroy us continually.

Jacob 7:25
 25 Wherefore, the people of Nephi did fortify against them with
their arms, and with all their might, trusting in the God and
rock of their salvation; wherefore, they became as yet,
conquerors of their enemies.

Jacob 7:26
 26 And it came to pass that I, Jacob, began to be old; and the
record of this people being kept on the other plates of Nephi,
wherefore, I conclude this record, declaring that I have written
according to the best of my knowledge, by saying that the time
passed away with us, and also our lives passed away like as it
were unto us a dream, we being a lonesome and a solemn people,
wanderers, cast out from Jerusalem, born in tribulation, in a
wilderness, and hated of our brethren, which caused wars and
contentions; wherefore, we did mourn out our days.

Jacob 7:27
 27 And I, Jacob, saw that I must soon go down to my grave;
wherefore, I said unto my son Enos: Take these plates. And I
told him the things which my brother Nephi had commanded me, and
he promised obedience unto the commands. And I make an end of my
writing upon these plates, which writing has been small; and to
the reader I bid farewell, hoping that many of my brethren may
read my words. Brethren, adieu.




