THE BOOK OF JAROM

Jarom 1:1
 1 Now behold, I, Jarom, write a few words according to the
commandment of my father, Enos, that our genealogy may be kept.

Jarom 1:2
 2 And as these plates are small, and as these things are written
for the intent of the benefit of our brethren the Lamanites,
wherefore, it must needs be that I write a little; but I shall
not write the things of my prophesying, nor of my revelations.
For what could I write more than my fathers have written? For
have not they revealed the plan of salvation? I say unto you,
Yea; and this sufficeth me.

Jarom 1:3
 3 Behold, it is expedient that much should be done among this
people, because of the hardness of their hearts, and the deafness
of their ears, and the blindness of their minds, and the
stiffness of their necks; nevertheless, God is exceedingly
merciful unto them, and has not as yet swept them off from the
face of the land.

Jarom 1:4
 4 And there are many among us who have many revelations, for
they are not all stiffnecked. And as many as are not stiffnecked
and have faith, have communion with the Holy Spirit, which maketh
manifest unto the children of men, according to their faith.

Jarom 1:5
 5 And now, behold, two hundred years had passed away, and the
people of Nephi had waxed strong in the land. They observed to
keep the law of Moses and the sabbath day holy unto the Lord.
And they profaned not; neither did they blaspheme. And the laws
of the land were exceedingly strict.

Jarom 1:6
 6 And they were scattered upon much of the face of the land, and
the Lamanites also. And they were exceedingly more numerous than
were they of the Nephites; and they loved murder and would drink
the blood of beasts.

Jarom 1:7
 7 And it came to pass that they came many times against us, the
Nephites, to battle. But our kings and our leaders were mighty
men in the faith of the Lord; and they taught the people the ways
of the Lord; wherefore, we withstood the Lamanites and swept them
away out of our lands, and began to fortify our cities, or
whatsoever place of our inheritance.

Jarom 1:8
 8 And we multiplied exceedingly, and spread upon the face of the
land, and became exceedingly rich in gold, and in silver, and in
precious things, and in fine workmanship of wood, in buildings,
and in machinery, and also in iron and copper, and brass and
steel, making all manner of tools of every kind to till the
ground, and weapons of war--yea, the sharp pointed arrow, and the
quiver, and the dart, and the javelin, and all preparations for
war.

Jarom 1:9
 9 And thus being prepared to meet the Lamanites, they did not
prosper against us. But the word of the Lord was verified, which
he spake unto our fathers, saying that: Inasmuch as ye will keep
my commandments ye shall prosper in the land.

Jarom 1:10
 10 And it came to pass that the prophets of the Lord did
threaten the people of Nephi, according to the word of God, that
if they did not keep the commandments, but should fall into
transgression, they should be destroyed from off the face of the
land.

Jarom 1:11
 11 Wherefore, the prophets, and the priests, and the teachers,
did labor diligently, exhorting with all long-suffering the
people to diligence; teaching the law of Moses, and the intent
for which it was given; persuading them to look forward unto the
Messiah, and believe in him to come as though he already was.
And after this manner did they teach them.

Jarom 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that by so doing they kept them from
being destroyed upon the face of the land; for they did prick
their hearts with the word, continually stirring them up unto
repentance.

Jarom 1:13
 13 And it came to pass that two hundred and thirty and eight
years had passed away--after the manner of wars, and contentions,
and dissensions, for the space of much of the time.

Jarom 1:14
 14 And I, Jarom, do not write more, for the plates are small.
But behold, my brethren, ye can go to the other plates of Nephi;
for behold, upon them the records of our wars are engraven,
according to the writings of the kings, or those which they
caused to be written.

Jarom 1:15
 15 And I deliver these plates into the hands of my son Omni,
that they may be kept according to the commandments of my
fathers.




