Mosiah 25
Chapter 25

Mosiah 25:1
 1 And now king Mosiah caused that all the people should be
gathered together.

Mosiah 25:2
 2 Now there were not so many of the children of Nephi, or so
many of those who were descendants of Nephi, as there were of the
people of Zarahemla, who was a descendant of Mulek, and those who
came with him into the wilderness.

Mosiah 25:3
 3 And there were not so many of the people of Nephi and of the
people of Zarahemla as there were of the Lamanites; yea, they
were not half so numerous.

Mosiah 25:4
 4 And now all the people of Nephi were assembled together, and
also all the people of Zarahemla, and they were gathered together
in two bodies.

Mosiah 25:5
 5 And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and caused to be
read, the records of Zeniff to his people; yea, he read the
records of the people of Zeniff, from the time they left the land
of Zarahemla until they returned again.

Mosiah 25:6
 6 And he also read the account of Alma and his brethren, and all
their afflictions, from the time they left the land of Zarahemla
until the time they returned again.

Mosiah 25:7
 7 And now, when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records,
his people who tarried in the land were struck with wonder and
amazement.

Mosiah 25:8
 8 For they knew not what to think; for when they beheld those
that had been delivered out of bondage they were filled with
exceedingly great joy.

Mosiah 25:9
 9 And again, when they thought of their brethren who had been
slain by the Lamanites they were filled with sorrow, and even
shed many tears of sorrow.

Mosiah 25:10
 10 And again, when they thought of the immediate goodness of
God, and his power in delivering Alma and his brethren out of the
hands of the Lamanites and of bondage, they did raise their
voices and give thanks to God.

Mosiah 25:11
 11 And again, when they thought upon the Lamanites, who were
their brethren, of their sinful and polluted state, they were
filled with pain and anguish for the welfare of their souls.

Mosiah 25:12
 12 And it came to pass that those who were the children of
Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to wife the daughters of
the Lamanites, were displeased with the conduct of their fathers,
and they would no longer be called by the names of their fathers,
therefore they took upon themselves the name of Nephi, that they
might be called the children of Nephi and be numbered among those
who were called Nephites.

Mosiah 25:13
 13 And now all the people of Zarahemla were numbered with the
Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been conferred upon
none but those who were descendants of Nephi.

Mosiah 25:14
 14 And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had made an end of
speaking and reading to the people, he desired that Alma should
also speak to the people.

Mosiah 25:15
 15 And Alma did speak unto them, when they were assembled
together in large bodies, and he went from one body to another,
preaching unto the people repentance and faith on the Lord.

Mosiah 25:16
 16 And he did exhort the people of Limhi and his brethren, all
those that had been delivered out of bondage, that they should
remember that it was the Lord that did deliver them.

Mosiah 25:17
 17 And it came to pass that after Alma had taught the people
many things, and had made an end of speaking to them, that king
Limhi was desirous that he might be baptized; and all his people
were desirous that they might be baptized also.

Mosiah 25:18
 18 Therefore, Alma did go forth into the water and did baptize
them; yea, he did baptize them after the manner he did his
brethren in the waters of Mormon; yea, and as many as he did
baptize did belong to the church of God; and this because of
their belief on the words of Alma.

Mosiah 25:19
 19 And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted unto Alma that
he might establish churches throughout all the land of Zarahemla;
and gave him power to ordain priests and teachers over every
church.

Mosiah 25:20
 20 Now this was done because there were so many people that they
could not all be governed by one teacher; neither could they all
hear the word of God in one assembly;

Mosiah 25:21
 21 Therefore they did assemble themselves together in different
bodies, being called churches; every church having their priests
and their teachers, and every priest preaching the word according
as it was delivered to him by the mouth of Alma.

Mosiah 25:22
 22 And thus, notwithstanding there being many churches they were
all one church, yea, even the church of God; for there was
nothing preached in all the churches except it were repentance
and faith in God.

Mosiah 25:23
 23 And now there were seven churches in the land of Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that whosoever were desirous to take upon
them the name of Christ, or of God, they did join the churches of
God;

Mosiah 25:24
 24 And they were called the people of God. And the Lord did
pour out his Spirit upon them, and they were blessed, and
prospered in the land.

