Alma 55
Chapter 55

Alma 55:1
 1 Now it came to pass that when Moroni had received this epistle
he was more angry, because he knew that Ammoron had a perfect
knowledge of his fraud; yea, he knew that Ammoron knew that it
was not a just cause that had caused him to wage a war against
the people of Nephi.

Alma 55:2
 2 And he said: Behold, I will not exchange prisoners with
Ammoron save he will withdraw his purpose, as I have stated in my
epistle; for I will not grant unto him that he shall have any
more power than what he hath got.

Alma 55:3
 3 Behold, I know the place where the Lamanites do guard my
people whom they have taken prisoners; and as Ammoron would not
grant unto me mine epistle, behold, I will give unto him
according to my words; yea, I will seek death among them until
they shall sue for peace.

Alma 55:4
 4 And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words,
he caused that a search should be made among his men, that
perhaps he might find a man who was a descendant of Laman among
them.

Alma 55:5
 5 And it came to pass that they found one, whose name was Laman;
and he was one of the servants of the king who was murdered by
Amalickiah.

Alma 55:6
 6 Now Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of his men
should go forth unto the guards who were over the Nephites.

Alma 55:7
 7 Now the Nephites were guarded in the city of Gid; therefore
Moroni appointed Laman and caused that a small number of men
should go with him.

Alma 55:8
 8 And when it was evening Laman went to the guards who were over
the Nephites, and behold, they saw him coming and they hailed
him; but he saith unto them: Fear not; behold, I am a Lamanite.
Behold, we have escaped from the Nephites, and they sleep; and
behold we have taken of their wine and brought with us.

Alma 55:9
 9 Now when the Lamanites heard these words they received him
with joy; and they said unto him: Give us of your wine, that we
may drink; we are glad that ye have thus taken wine with you for
we are weary.

Alma 55:10
 10 But Laman said unto them: Let us keep of our wine till we go
against the Nephites to battle. But this saying only made them
more desirous to drink of the wine;

Alma 55:11
 11 For, said they: We are weary, therefore let us take of the
wine, and by and by we shall receive wine for our rations, which
will strengthen us to go against the Nephites.

Alma 55:12
 12 And Laman said unto them: You may do according to your
desires.

Alma 55:13
 13 And it came to pass that they did take of the wine freely;
and it was pleasant to their taste, therefore they took of it
more freely; and it was strong, having been prepared in its
strength.

Alma 55:14
 14 And it came to pass they did drink and were merry, and by and
by they were all drunken.

Alma 55:15
 15 And now when Laman and his men saw that they were all
drunken, and were in a deep sleep, they returned to Moroni and
told him all the things that had happened.

Alma 55:16
 16 And now this was according to the design of Moroni. And
Moroni had prepared his men with weapons of war; and he went to
the city Gid, while the Lamanites were in a deep sleep and
drunken, and cast in weapons of war unto the prisoners, insomuch
that they were all armed;

Alma 55:17
 17 Yea, even to their women, and all those of their children, as
many as were able to use a weapon of war, when Moroni had armed
all those prisoners; and all those things were done in a profound
silence.

Alma 55:18
 18 But had they awakened the Lamanites, behold they were drunken
and the Nephites could have slain them.

Alma 55:19
 19 But behold, this was not the desire of Moroni; he did not
delight in murder or bloodshed, but he delighted in the saving of
his people from destruction; and for this cause he might not
bring upon him injustice, he would not fall upon the Lamanites
and destroy them in their drunkenness.

Alma 55:20
 20 But he had obtained his desires; for he had armed those
prisoners of the Nephites who were within the wall of the city,
and had given them power to gain possession of those parts which
were within the walls.

Alma 55:21
 21 And then he caused the men who were with him to withdraw a
pace from them, and surround the armies of the Lamanites.

Alma 55:22
 22 Now behold this was done in the night-time, so that when the
Lamanites awoke in the morning they beheld that they were
surrounded by the Nephites without, and that their prisoners were
armed within.

Alma 55:23
 23 And thus they saw that the Nephites had power over them; and
in these circumstances they found that it was not expedient that
they should fight with the Nephites; therefore their chief
captains demanded their weapons of war, and they brought them
forth and cast them at the feet of the Nephites, pleading for
mercy.

Alma 55:24
 24 Now behold, this was the desire of Moroni. He took them
prisoners of war, and took possession of the city, and caused
that all the prisoners should be liberated, who were Nephites;
and they did join the army of Moroni, and were a great strength
to his army.

Alma 55:25
 25 And it came to pass that he did cause the Lamanites, whom he
had taken prisoners, that they should commence a labor in
strengthening the fortifications round about the city Gid.

Alma 55:26
 26 And it came to pass that when he had fortified the city Gid,
according to his desires, he caused that his prisoners should be
taken to the city Bountiful; and he also guarded that city with
an exceedingly strong force.

Alma 55:27
 27 And it came to pass that they did, notwithstanding all the
intrigues of the Lamanites, keep and protect all the prisoners
whom they had taken, and also maintain all the ground and the
advantage which they had retaken.

Alma 55:28
 28 And it came to pass that the Nephites began again to be
victorious, and to reclaim their rights and their privileges.

Alma 55:29
 29 Many time did the Lamanites attempt to encircle them about by
night, but in these attempts they did lose many prisoners.

Alma 55:30
 30 And many times did they attempt to administer of their wine
to the Nephites, that they might destroy them with poison or with
drunkenness.

Alma 55:31
 31 But behold, the Nephites were not slow to remember the Lord
their God in this their time of affliction. They could not be
taken in their snares; yea, they would not partake of their wine,
save they had first given to some of the Lamanite prisoners.

Alma 55:32
 32 And they were thus cautious that no poison should be
administered among them; for if their wine would poison a
Lamanite it would also poison a Nephite; and thus they did try
all their liquors.

Alma 55:33
 33 And now it came to pass that it was expedient for Moroni to
make preparations to attack the city Morianton; for behold, the
Lamanites had, by their labors, fortified the city Morianton
until it had become an exceeding stronghold.

Alma 55:34
 34 And they were continually bringing new forces into that city,
and also new supplies of provisions.

Alma 55:35
 35 And thus ended the twenty and ninth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

