Alma 31
Chapter 31

Alma 31:1
 1 Now it came to pass that after the end of Korihor, Alma having
received tidings that the Zoramites were perverting the ways of
the Lord, and that Zoram, who was their leader, was leading the
hearts of the people to bow down to dumb idols, his heart again
began to sicken because of the iniquity of the people.

Alma 31:2
 2 For it was the cause of great sorrow to Alma to know of
iniquity among his people; therefore his heart was exceedingly
sorrowful because of the separation of the Zoramites from the
Nephites.

Alma 31:3
 3 Now the Zoramites had gathered themselves together in a land
which they called Antionum, which was east of the land of
Zarahemla, which lay nearly bordering upon the seashore, which
was south of the land of Jershon, which also bordered upon the
wilderness south, which wilderness was full of the Lamanites.

Alma 31:4
 4 Now the Nephites greatly feared that the Zoramites would enter
into a correspondence with the Lamanites, and that it would be
the means of great loss on the part of the Nephites.

Alma 31:5
 5 And now, as the preaching of the word had a great tendency to
lead the people to do that which was just--yea, it had had more
powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or
anything else, which had happened unto them--therefore Alma
thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue of the
word of God.

Alma 31:6
 6 Therefore he took Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner; and Himni he
did leave in the church in Zarahemla; but the former three he
took with him, and also Amulek and Zeezrom, who were at Melek;
and he also took two of his sons.

Alma 31:7
 7 Now the eldest of his sons he took not with him, and his name
was Helaman; but the names of those whom he took with him were
Shiblon and Corianton; and these are the names of those who went
with him among the Zoramites, to preach unto them the word.

Alma 31:8
 8 Now the Zoramites were dissenters from the Nephites; therefore
they had had the word of God preached unto them.

Alma 31:9
 9 But they had fallen into great errors, for they would not
observe to keep the commandments of God, and his statutes,
according to the law of Moses.

Alma 31:10
 10 Neither would they observe the performances of the church, to
continue in prayer and supplication to God daily, that they might
not enter into temptation.

Alma 31:11
 11 Yea, in fine, they did pervert the ways of the Lord in very
many instances; therefore, for this cause, Alma and his brethren
went into the land to preach the word unto them.

Alma 31:12
 12 Now, when they had come into the land, behold, to their
astonishment they found that the Zoramites had built synagogues,
and that they did gather themselves together on one day of the
week, which day they did call the day of the Lord; and they did
worship after a manner which Alma and his brethren had never
beheld;

Alma 31:13
 13 For they had a place built up in the center of their
synagogue, a place for standing, which was high above the head,
and the top thereof would only admit one person.

Alma 31:14
 14 Therefore, whosoever desired to worship must go forth and
stand upon the top thereof, and stretch forth his hands towards
heaven, and cry with a loud voice, saying:

Alma 31:15
 15 Holy, holy God; we believe that thou art God, and we believe
that thou art holy, and that thou wast a spirit, and that thou
art a spirit, and that thou wilt be a spirit forever.

Alma 31:16
 16 Holy God, we believe that thou hast separated us from our
brethren; and we do not believe in the tradition of our brethren,
which was handed down to them by the childishness of their
fathers; but we believe that thou hast elected us to be thy holy
children; and also thou hast made it known unto us that there
shall be no Christ.

Alma 31:17
 17 But thou art the same yesterday, today, and forever; and thou
hast elected us that we shall be saved, whilst all around us are
elected to be cast by thy wrath down to hell; for the which
holiness, O God, we thank thee; and we also thank thee that thou
hast elected us, that we may not be led away after the foolish
traditions of our brethren, which doth bind them down to a belief
of Christ, which doth lead their hearts to wander far from thee,
our God.

Alma 31:18
 18 And again we thank thee, O God, that we are a chosen and a
holy people. Amen.

Alma 31:19
 19 Now it came to pass that after Alma and his brethren and his
sons had heard these prayers, they were astonished beyond all
measure.

Alma 31:20
 20 For behold, every man did go forth and offer up these same
prayers.

Alma 31:21
 21 Now the place was called by them Rameumptom, which, being
interpreted, is the holy stand.

Alma 31:22
 22 Now, from this stand they did offer up, every man, the
selfsame prayer unto God, thanking their God that they were
chosen of him, and that he did not lead them away after the
tradition of their brethren, and that their hearts were not
stolen away to believe in things to come, which they knew nothing
about.

Alma 31:23
 23 Now, after the people had all offered up thanks after this
manner, they returned to their homes, never speaking of their God
again until they had assembled themselves together again to the
holy stand, to offer up thanks after their manner.

Alma 31:24
 24 Now when Alma saw this his heart was grieved; for he saw that
they were a wicked and a perverse people; yea, he saw that their
hearts were set upon gold, and upon silver, and upon all manner
of fine goods.

Alma 31:25
 25 Yea, and he also saw that their hearts were lifted up unto
great boasting, in their pride.

Alma 31:26
 26 And he lifted up his voice to heaven, and cried, saying: O,
how long, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that thy servants shall dwell
here below in the flesh, to behold such gross wickedness among
the children of men?

Alma 31:27
 27 Behold, O God, they cry unto thee, and yet their hearts are
swallowed up in their pride. Behold, O God, they cry unto thee
with their mouths, while they are puffed up, even to greatness,
with the vain things of the world.

Alma 31:28
 28 Behold, O my God, their costly apparel, and their ringlets,
and their bracelets, and their ornaments of gold, and all their
precious things which they are ornamented with; and behold, their
hearts are set upon them, and yet they cry unto thee and say--We
thank thee, O God, for we are a chosen people unto thee, while
others shall perish.

Alma 31:29
 29 Yea, and they say that thou hast made it known unto them that
there shall be no Christ.

Alma 31:30
 30 O Lord God, how long wilt thou suffer that such wickedness
and infidelity shall be among this people? O Lord, wilt thou
give me strength, that I may bear with mine infirmities. For I
am infirm, and such wickedness among this people doth pain my
soul.

Alma 31:31
 31 O Lord, my heart is exceedingly sorrowful; wilt thou comfort
my soul in Christ. O Lord, wilt thou grant unto me that I may
have strength, that I may suffer with patience these afflictions
which shall come upon me, because of the iniquity of this people.

Alma 31:32
 32 O Lord, wilt thou comfort my soul, and give unto me success,
and also my fellow laborers who are with me--yea, Ammon, and
Aaron, and Omner, and also Amulek and Zeezrom and also my two
sons--yea, even all these wilt thou comfort, O Lord. Yea, wilt
thou comfort their souls in Christ.

Alma 31:33
 33 Wilt thou grant unto them that they may have strength, that
they may bear their afflictions which shall come upon them
because of the iniquities of this people.

Alma 31:34
 34 O Lord, wilt thou grant unto us that we may have success in
bringing them again unto thee in Christ.

Alma 31:35
 35 Behold, O Lord, their souls are precious, and many of them
are our brethren; therefore, give unto us, O Lord, power and
wisdom that we may bring these, our brethren, again unto thee.

Alma 31:36
 36 Now it came to pass that when Alma had said these words, that
he clapped his hands upon all them who were with him. And
behold, as he clapped his hands upon them, they were filled with
the Holy Spirit.

Alma 31:37
 37 And after that they did separate themselves one from another,
taking no thought for themselves what they should eat, or what
they should drink, or what they should put on.

Alma 31:38
 38 And the Lord provided for them that they should hunger not,
neither should they thirst; yea, and he also gave them strength,
that they should suffer no manner of afflictions, save it were
swallowed up in the joy of Christ. Now this was according to the
prayer of Alma; and this because he prayed in faith.

