Alma 18
Chapter 18

Alma 18:1
 1 And it came to pass that king Lamoni caused that his servants
should stand forth and testify to all the things which they had
seen concerning the matter.

Alma 18:2
 2 And when they had all testified to the things which they had
seen, and he had learned of the faithfulness of Ammon in
preserving his flocks, and also of his great power in contending
against those who sought to slay him, he was astonished
exceedingly, and said: Surely, this is more than a man. Behold,
is not this the Great Spirit who doth send such great punishments
upon this people, because of their murders?

Alma 18:3
 3 And they answered the king, and said: Whether he be the Great
Spirit or a man, we know not; but this much we do know, that he
cannot be slain by the enemies of the king; neither can they
scatter the king's flocks when he is with us, because of his
expertness and great strength; therefore, we know that he is a
friend to the king. And now, O king, we do not believe that a
man has such great power, for we know he cannot be slain.

Alma 18:4
 4 And now, when the king heard these words, he said unto them:
Now I know that it is the Great Spirit; and he has come down at
this time to preserve your lives, that I might not slay you as I
did your brethren. Now this is the Great Spirit of whom our
fathers have spoken.

Alma 18:5
 5 Now this was the tradition of Lamoni, which he had received
from his father, that there was a Great Spirit. Notwithstanding
they believed in a Great Spirit they supposed that whatsoever
they did was right; nevertheless, Lamoni began to fear
exceedingly, with fear lest he had done wrong in slaying his
servants;

Alma 18:6
 6 For he had slain many of them because their brethren had
scattered their flocks at the place of water; and thus, because
they had had their flocks scattered they were slain.

Alma 18:7
 7 Now it was the practice of these Lamanites to stand by the
waters of Sebus to scatter the flocks of the people, that thereby
they might drive away many that were scattered unto their own
land, it being a practice of plunder among them.

Alma 18:8
 8 And it came to pass that king Lamoni inquired of his servants,
saying: Where is this man that has such great power?

Alma 18:9
 9 And they said unto him: Behold, he is feeding thy horses. Now
the king had commanded his servants, previous to the time of the
watering of their flocks, that they should prepare his horses and
chariots, and conduct him forth to the land of Nephi; for there
had been a great feast appointed at the land of Nephi, by the
father of Lamoni, who was king over all the land.

Alma 18:10
 10 Now when king Lamoni heard that Ammon was preparing his
horses and his chariots he was more astonished, because of the
faithfulness of Ammon, saying: Surely there has not been any
servant among all my servants that has been so faithful as this
man; for even he doth remember all my commandments to execute
them.

Alma 18:11
 11 Now I surely know that this is the Great Spirit, and I would
desire him that he come in unto me, but I durst not.

Alma 18:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Ammon had made ready the horses
and the chariots for the king and his servants, he went in unto
the king, and he saw that the countenance of the king was
changed; therefore he was about to return out of his presence.

Alma 18:13
 13 And one of the king's servants said unto him, Rabbanah, which
is, being interpreted, powerful or great king, considering their
kings to be powerful; and thus he said unto him: Rabbanah, the
king desireth thee to stay.

Alma 18:14
 14 Therefore Ammon turned himself unto the king, and said unto
him: What wilt thou that I should do for thee, O king? And the
king answered him not for the space of an hour, according to
their time, for he knew not what he should say unto him.

Alma 18:15
 15 And it came to pass that Ammon said unto him again: What
desirest thou of me? But the king answered him not.

Alma 18:16
 16 And it came to pass that Ammon, being filled with the Spirit
of God, therefore he perceived the thoughts of the king. And he
said unto him: Is it because thou hast heard that I defended thy
servants and thy flocks, and slew seven of their brethren with
the sling and with the sword, and smote off the arms of others,
in order to defend thy flocks and thy servants; behold, is it
this that causeth thy marvelings?

Alma 18:17
 17 I say unto you, what is it, that thy marvelings are so great?
Behold, I am a man, and am thy servant; therefore, whatsoever
thou desirest which is right, that will I do.

Alma 18:18
 18 Now when the king had heard these words, he marveled again,
for he beheld that Ammon could discern his thoughts; but
notwithstanding this, king Lamoni did open his mouth, and said
unto him: Who art thou? Art thou that Great Spirit, who knows
all things?

Alma 18:19
 19 Ammon answered and said unto him: I am not.

Alma 18:20
 20 And the king said: How knowest thou the thoughts of my heart?
Thou mayest speak boldly, and tell me concerning these things;
and also tell me by what power ye slew and smote off the arms of
my brethren that scattered my flocks--

Alma 18:21
 21 And now, if thou wilt tell me concerning these things,
whatsoever thou desirest I will give unto thee; and if it were
needed, I would guard thee with my armies; but I know that thou
art more powerful than all they; nevertheless, whatsoever thou
desirest of me I will grant it unto thee.

Alma 18:22
 22 Now Ammon being wise, yet harmless, he said unto Lamoni: Wilt
thou hearken unto my words, if I tell thee by what power I do
these things? And this is the thing that I desire of thee.

Alma 18:23
 23 And the king answered him, and said: Yea, I will believe all
thy words. And thus he was caught with guile.

Alma 18:24
 24 And Ammon began to speak unto him with boldness, and said
unto him: Believest thou that there is a God?

Alma 18:25
 25 And he answered, and said unto him: I do not know what that
meaneth.

Alma 18:26
 26 And then Ammon said: Believest thou that there is a Great
Spirit?

Alma 18:27
 27 And he said, Yea.

Alma 18:28
 28 And Ammon said: This is God. And Ammon said unto him again:
Believest thou that this Great Spirit, who is God, created all
things which are in heaven and in the earth?

Alma 18:29
 29 And he said: Yea, I believe that he created all things which
are in the earth; but I do not know the heavens.

Alma 18:30
 30 And Ammon said unto him: The heavens is a place where God
dwells and all his holy angels.

Alma 18:31
 31 And king Lamoni said: Is it above the earth?

Alma 18:32
 32 And Ammon said: Yea, and he looketh down upon all the
children of men; and he knows all the thoughts and intents of the
heart; for by his hand were they all created from the beginning.

Alma 18:33
 33 And king Lamoni said: I believe all these things which thou
hast spoken. Art thou sent from God?

Alma 18:34
 34 Ammon said unto him: I am a man; and man in the beginning was
created after the image of God, and I am called by his Holy
Spirit to teach these things unto this people, that they may be
brought to a knowledge of that which is just and true;

Alma 18:35
 35 And a portion of that Spirit dwelleth in me, which giveth me
knowledge, and also power according to my faith and desires which
are in God.

Alma 18:36
 36 Now when Ammon had said these words, he began at the creation
of the world, and also the creation of Adam, and told him all the
things concerning the fall of man, and rehearsed and laid before
him the records and the holy scriptures of the people, which had
been spoken by the prophets, even down to the time that their
father, Lehi, left Jerusalem.

Alma 18:37
 37 And he also rehearsed unto them (for it was unto the king and
to his servants) all the journeyings of their fathers in the
wilderness, and all their sufferings with hunger and thirst, and
their travail, and so forth.

Alma 18:38
 38 And he also rehearsed unto them concerning the rebellions of
Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, yea, all their
rebellions did he relate unto them; and he expounded unto them
all the records and scriptures from the time that Lehi left
Jerusalem down to the present time.

Alma 18:39
 39 But this is not all; for he expounded unto them the plan of
redemption, which was prepared from the foundation of the world;
and he also made known unto them concerning the coming of Christ,
and all the works of the Lord did he make known unto them.

Alma 18:40
 40 And it came to pass that after he had said all these things,
and expounded them to the king, that the king believed all his
words.

Alma 18:41
 41 And he began to cry unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, have
mercy; according to thy abundant mercy which thou hast had upon
the people of Nephi, have upon me, and my people.

Alma 18:42
 42 And now, when he had said this, he fell unto the earth, as if
he were dead.

Alma 18:43
 43 And it came to pass that his servants took him and carried
him in unto his wife, and laid him upon a bed; and he lay as if
he were dead for the space of two days and two nights; and his
wife, and his sons, and his daughters mourned over him, after the
manner of the Lamanites, greatly lamenting his loss.

