Alma 52
Chapter 52

Alma 52:1
 1 And now, it came to pass in the twenty and sixth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, behold, when the
Lamanites awoke on the first morning of the first month, behold,
they found Amalickiah was dead in his own tent; and they also saw
that Teancum was ready to give them battle on that day.

Alma 52:2
 2 And now, when the Lamanites saw this they were affrighted; and
they abandoned their design in marching into the land northward,
and retreated with all their army into the city of Mulek, and
sought protection in their fortifications.

Alma 52:3
 3 And it came to pass that the brother of Amalickiah was
appointed king over the people; and his name was Ammoron; thus
king Ammoron, the brother of king Amalickiah, was appointed to
reign in his stead.

Alma 52:4
 4 And it came to pass that he did command that his people should
maintain those cities, which they had taken by the shedding of
blood; for they had not taken any cities save they had lost much
blood.

Alma 52:5
 5 And now, Teancum saw that the Lamanites were determined to
maintain those cities which they had taken, and those parts of
the land which they had obtained possession of; and also seeing
the enormity of their number, Teancum thought it was not
expedient that he should attempt to attack them in their forts.

Alma 52:6
 6 But he kept his men round about, as if making preparations for
war; yea, and truly he was preparing to defend himself against
them, by casting up walls round about and preparing places of
resort.

Alma 52:7
 7 And it came to pass that he kept thus preparing for war until
Moroni had sent a large number of men to strengthen his army.

Alma 52:8
 8 And Moroni also sent orders unto him that he should retain all
the prisoners who fell into his hands; for as the Lamanites had
taken many prisoners, that he should retain all the prisoners of
the Lamanites as a ransom for those whom the Lamanites had taken.

Alma 52:9
 9 And he also sent orders unto him that he should fortify the
land Bountiful, and secure the narrow pass which led into the
land northward, lest the Lamanites should obtain that point and
should have power to harass them on every side.

Alma 52:10
 10 And Moroni also sent unto him, desiring him that he would be
faithful in maintaining that quarter of the land, and that he
would seek every opportunity to scourge the Lamanites in that
quarter, as much as was in his power, that perhaps he might take
again by stratagem or some other way those cities which had been
taken out of their hands; and that he also would fortify and
strengthen the cities round about, which had not fallen into the
hands of the Lamanites.

Alma 52:11
 11 And he also said unto him, I would come unto you, but behold,
the Lamanites are upon us in the borders of the land by the west
sea; and behold, I go against them, therefore I cannot come unto
you.

Alma 52:12
 12 Now, the king (Ammoron) had departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, and had made known unto the queen concerning the death
of his brother, and had gathered together a large number of men,
and had marched forth against the Nephites on the borders by the
west sea.

Alma 52:13
 13 And thus he was endeavoring to harass the Nephites, and to
draw away a part of their forces to that part of the land, while
he had commanded those whom he had left to possess the cities
which he had taken, that they should also harass the Nephites on
the borders by the east sea, and should take possession of their
lands as much as it was in their power, according to the power of
their armies.

Alma 52:14
 14 And thus were the Nephites in those dangerous circumstances
in the ending of the twenty and sixth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 52:15
 15 But behold, it came to pass in the twenty and seventh year of
the reign of the judges, that Teancum, by the command of
Moroni--who had established armies to protect the south and the
west borders of the land, and had begun his march towards the
land Bountiful, that he might assist Teancum with his men in
retaking the cities which they had lost--

Alma 52:16
 16 And it came to pass that Teancum had received orders to make
an attack upon the city of Mulek, and retake it if it were
possible.

Alma 52:17
 17 And it came to pass that Teancum made preparations to make an
attack upon the city of Mulek, and march forth with his army
against the Lamanites; but he saw that it was impossible that he
could overpower them while they were in their fortifications;
therefore he abandoned his designs and returned again to the city
Bountiful, to wait for the coming of Moroni, that he might
receive strength to his army.

Alma 52:18
 18 And it came to pass that Moroni did arrive with his army at
the land of Bountiful, in the latter end of the twenty and
seventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 52:19
 19 And in the commencement of the twenty and eighth year, Moroni
and Teancum and many of the chief captains held a council of
war--what they should do to cause the Lamanites to come out
against them to battle; or that they might by some means flatter
them out of their strongholds, that they might gain advantage
over them and take again the city of Mulek.

Alma 52:20
 20 And it came to pass they sent embassies to the army of the
Lamanites, which protected the city of Mulek, to their leader,
whose name was Jacob, desiring him that he would come out with
his armies to meet them upon the plains between the two cities.
But behold, Jacob, who was a Zoramite, would not come out with
his army to meet them upon the plains.

Alma 52:21
 21 And it came to pass that Moroni, having no hopes of meeting
them upon fair grounds, therefore, he resolved upon a plan that
he might decoy the Lamanites out of their strongholds.

Alma 52:22
 22 Therefore he caused that Teancum should take a small number
of men and march down near the seashore; and Moroni and his army,
by night, marched in the wilderness, on the west of the city
Mulek; and thus, on the morrow, when the guards of the Lamanites
had discovered Teancum, they ran and told it unto Jacob, their
leader.

Alma 52:23
 23 And it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites did
march forth against Teancum, supposing by their numbers to
overpower Teancum because of the smallness of his numbers. And
as Teancum saw the armies of the Lamanites coming out against him
he began to retreat down by the seashore, northward.

Alma 52:24
 24 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that he began
to flee, they took courage and pursued them with vigor. And
while Teancum was thus leading away the Lamanites who were
pursuing them in vain, behold, Moroni commanded that a part of
his army who were with him should march forth into the city, and
take possession of it.

Alma 52:25
 25 And thus they did, and slew all those who had been left to
protect the city, yea, all those who would not yield up their
weapons of war.

Alma 52:26
 26 And thus Moroni had obtained possession of the city Mulek
with a part of his army, while he marched with the remainder to
meet the Lamanites when they should return from the pursuit of
Teancum.

Alma 52:27
 27 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue Teancum
until they came near the city Bountiful, and then they were met
by Lehi and a small army, which had been left to protect the city
Bountiful.

Alma 52:28
 28 And now behold, when the chief captains of the Lamanites had
beheld Lehi with his army coming against them, they fled in much
confusion, lest perhaps they should not obtain the city Mulek
before Lehi should overtake them; for they were wearied because
of their march, and the men of Lehi were fresh.

Alma 52:29
 29 Now the Lamanites did not know that Moroni had been in their
rear with his army; and all they feared was Lehi and his men.

Alma 52:30
 30 Now Lehi was not desirous to overtake them till they should
meet Moroni and his army.

Alma 52:31
 31 And it came to pass that before the Lamanites had retreated
far they were surrounded by the Nephites, by the men of Moroni on
one hand, and the men of Lehi on the other, all of whom were
fresh and full of strength; but the Lamanites were wearied
because of their long march.

Alma 52:32
 32 And Moroni commanded his men that they should fall upon them
until they had given up their weapons of war.

Alma 52:33
 33 And it came to pass that Jacob, being their leader, being
also a Zoramite, and having an unconquerable spirit, he led the
Lamanites forth to battle with exceeding fury against Moroni.

Alma 52:34
 34 Moroni being in their course of march, therefore Jacob was
determined to slay them and cut his way through to the city of
Mulek. But behold, Moroni and his men were more powerful;
therefore they did not give way before the Lamanites.

Alma 52:35
 35 And it came to pass that they fought on both hands with
exceeding fury; and there were many slain on both sides; yea, and
Moroni was wounded and Jacob was killed.

Alma 52:36
 36 And Lehi pressed upon their rear with such fury with his
strong men, that the Lamanites in the rear delivered up their
weapons of war; and the remainder of them, being much confused,
knew not whither to go or to strike.

Alma 52:37
 37 Now Moroni seeing their confusion, he said unto them: If ye
will bring forth your weapons of war and deliver them up, behold
we will forbear shedding your blood.

Alma 52:38
 38 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had heard these
words, their chief captains, all those who were not slain, came
forth and threw down their weapons of war at the feet of Moroni,
and also commanded their men that they should do the same.

Alma 52:39
 39 But behold, there were many that would not; and those who
would not deliver up their swords were taken and bound, and their
weapons of war were taken from them, and they were compelled to
march with their brethren forth into the land Bountiful.

Alma 52:40
 40 And now the number of prisoners who were taken exceeded more
than the number of those who had been slain, yea, more than those
who had been slain on both sides.

