Alma 21
Chapter 21

Alma 21:1
 1 Now when Ammon and his brethren separated themselves in the
borders of the land of the Lamanites, behold Aaron took his
journey towards the land which was called by the Lamanites,
Jerusalem, calling it after the land of their fathers' nativity;
and it was away joining the borders of Mormon.

Alma 21:2
 2 Now the Lamanites and the Amalekites and the people of Amulon
had built a great city, which was called Jerusalem.

Alma 21:3
 3 Now the Lamanites of themselves were sufficiently hardened,
but the Amalekites and the Amulonites were still harder;
therefore they did cause the Lamanites that they should harden
their hearts, that they should wax strong in wickedness and their
abominations.

Alma 21:4
 4 And it came to pass that Aaron came to the city of Jerusalem,
and first began to preach to the Amalekites. And he began to
preach to them in their synagogues, for they had built synagogues
after the order of the Nehors; for many of the Amalekites and the
Amulonites were after the order of the Nehors.

Alma 21:5
 5 Therefore, as Aaron entered into one of their synagogues to
preach unto the people, and as he was speaking unto them, behold
there arose an Amalekite and began to contend with him, saying:
What is that thou hast testified? Hast thou seen an angel? Why
do not angels appear unto us? Behold are not this people as good
as thy people?

Alma 21:6
 6 Thou also sayest, except we repent we shall perish. How
knowest thou the thought and intent of our hearts? How knowest
thou that we have cause to repent? How knowest thou that we are
not a righteous people? Behold, we have built sanctuaries, and
we do assemble ourselves together to worship God. We do believe
that God will save all men.

Alma 21:7
 7 Now Aaron said unto him: Believest thou that the Son of God
shall come to redeem mankind from their sins?

Alma 21:8
 8 And the man said unto him: We do not believe that thou knowest
any such thing. We do not believe in these foolish traditions.
We do not believe that thou knowest of things to come, neither do
we believe that thy fathers and also that our fathers did know
concerning the things which they spake, of that which is to come.

Alma 21:9
 9 Now Aaron began to open the scriptures unto them concerning
the coming of Christ, and also concerning the resurrection of the
dead, and that there could be no redemption for mankind save it
were through the death and sufferings of Christ, and the
atonement of his blood.

Alma 21:10
 10 And it came to pass as he began to expound these things unto
them they were angry with him, and began to mock him; and they
would not hear the words which he spake.

Alma 21:11
 11 Therefore, when he saw that they would not hear his words, he
departed out of their synagogue, and came over to a village which
was called Ani-Anti, and there he found Muloki preaching the word
unto them; and also Ammah and his brethren. And they contended
with many about the word.

Alma 21:12
 12 And it came to pass that they saw that the people would
harden their hearts, therefore they departed and came over into
the land of Middoni. And they did preach the word unto many, and
few believed on the words which they taught.

Alma 21:13
 13 Nevertheless, Aaron and a certain number of his brethren were
taken and cast into prison, and the remainder of them fled out of
the land of Middoni unto the regions round about.

Alma 21:14
 14 And those who were cast into prison suffered many things, and
they were delivered by the hand of Lamoni and Ammon, and they
were fed and clothed.

Alma 21:15
 15 And they went forth again to declare the word, and thus they
were delivered for the first time out of prison; and thus they
had suffered.

Alma 21:16
 16 And they went forth whithersoever they were led by the Spirit
of the Lord, preaching the word of God in every synagogue of the
Amalekites, or in every assembly of the Lamanites where they
could be admitted.

Alma 21:17
 17 And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless them,
insomuch that they brought many to the knowledge of the truth;
yea, they did convince many of their sins, and of the traditions
of their fathers, which were not correct.

Alma 21:18
 18 And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni returned from the
land of Middoni to the land of Ishmael, which was the land of
their inheritance.

Alma 21:19
 19 And king Lamoni would not suffer that Ammon should serve him,
or be his servant.

Alma 21:20
 20 But he caused that there should be synagogues built in the
land of Ishmael; and he caused that his people, or the people who
were under his reign, should assemble themselves together.

Alma 21:21
 21 And he did rejoice over them, and he did teach them many
things. And he did also declare unto them that they were a
people who were under him, and that they were a free people, that
they were free from the oppressions of the king, his father; for
that his father had granted unto him that he might reign over the
people who were in the land of Ishmael, and in all the land round
about.

Alma 21:22
 22 And he also declared unto them that they might have the
liberty of worshiping the Lord their God according to their
desires, in whatsoever place they were in, if it were in the land
which was under the reign of king Lamoni.

Alma 21:23
 23 And Ammon did preach unto the people of king Lamoni; and it
came to pass that he did teach them all things concerning things
pertaining to righteousness. And he did exhort them daily, with
all diligence; and they gave heed unto his word, and they were
zealous for keeping the commandments of God.

