Helaman 10
Chapter 10

Helaman 10:1
 1 And it came to pass that there arose a division among the
people, insomuch that they divided hither and thither and went
their ways, leaving Nephi alone, as he was standing in the midst
of them.

Helaman 10:2
 2 And it came to pass that Nephi went his way towards his own
house, pondering upon the things which the Lord had shown unto
him.

Helaman 10:3
 3 And it came to pass as he was thus pondering--being much cast
down because of the wickedness of the people of the Nephites,
their secret works of darkness, and their murderings, and their
plunderings, and all manner of iniquities--and it came to pass as
he was thus pondering in his heart, behold, a voice came unto him
saying:

Helaman 10:4
 4 Blessed art thou, Nephi, for those things which thou hast
done; for I have beheld how thou hast with unwearyingness
declared the word, which I have given unto thee, unto this
people. And thou hast not feared them, and hast not sought thine
own life, but hast sought my will, and to keep my commandments.
Helaman 10:5
 5 And now, because thou hast done this with such unwearyingness,
behold, I will bless thee forever; and I will make thee mighty in
word and in deed, in faith and in works; yea, even that all
things shall be done unto thee according to thy word, for thou
shalt not ask that which is contrary to my will.

Helaman 10:6
 6 Behold, thou art Nephi, and I am God. Behold, I declare it
unto thee in the presence of mine angels, that ye shall have
power over this people, and shall smite the earth with famine,
and with pestilence, and destruction, according to the wickedness
of this people.

Helaman 10:7
 7 Behold, I give unto you power, that whatsoever ye shall seal
on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose
on earth shall be loosed in heaven; and thus shall ye have power
among this people.

Helaman 10:8
 8 And thus, if ye shall say unto this temple it shall be rent in
twain, it shall be done.

Helaman 10:9
 9 And if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou cast down and
become smooth, it shall be done.

Helaman 10:10
 10 And behold, if ye shall say that God shall smite this people,
it shall come to pass.

Helaman 10:11
 11 And now behold, I command you, that ye shall go and declare
unto this people, that thus saith the Lord God, who is the
Almighty: Except ye repent ye shall be smitten, even unto
destruction.

Helaman 10:12
 12 And behold, now it came to pass that when the Lord had spoken
these words unto Nephi, he did stop and did not go unto his own
house, but did return unto the multitudes who were scattered
about upon the face of the land, and began to declare unto them
the word of the Lord which had been spoken unto him, concerning
their destruction if they did not repent.

Helaman 10:13
 13 Now behold, notwithstanding that great miracle which Nephi
had done in telling them concerning the death of the chief judge,
they did harden their hearts and did not hearken unto the words
of the Lord.

Helaman 10:14
 14 Therefore Nephi did declare unto them the word of the Lord,
saying: Except ye repent, thus saith the Lord, ye shall be
smitten even unto destruction.

Helaman 10:15
 15 And it came to pass that when Nephi had declared unto them
the word, behold, they did still harden their hearts and would
not hearken unto his words; therefore they did revile against
him, and did seek to lay their hands upon him that they might
cast him into prison.

Helaman 10:16
 16 But behold, the power of God was with him, and they could not
take him to cast him into prison, for he was taken by the Spirit
and conveyed away out of the midst of them.

Helaman 10:17
 17 And it came to pass that thus he did go forth in the Spirit,
from multitude to multitude, declaring the word of God, even
until he had declared it unto them all, or sent it forth among
all the people.

Helaman 10:18
 18 And it came to pass that they would not hearken unto his
words; and there began to be contentions, insomuch that they were
divided against themselves and began to slay one another with the
sword.

Helaman 10:19
 19 And thus ended the seventy and first year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

