3 Nephi 15
Chapter 15

3 Nephi 15:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these
sayings he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and said
unto them: Behold, ye have heard the things which I taught before
I ascended to my Father; therefore, whoso remembereth these
sayings of mine and doeth them, him will I raise up at the last
day.

3 Nephi 15:2
 2 And it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he
perceived that there were some among them who marveled, and
wondered what he would concerning the law of Moses; for they
understood not the saying that old things had passed away, and
that all things had become new.

3 Nephi 15:3
 3 And he said unto them: Marvel not that I said unto you that
old things had passed away, and that all things had become new.

3 Nephi 15:4
 4 Behold, I say unto you that the law is fulfilled that was
given unto Moses.

3 Nephi 15:5
 5 Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted
with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for
I have come to fulfil the law; therefore it hath an end.

3 Nephi 15:6
 6 Behold, I do not destroy the prophets, for as many as have not
been fulfilled in me, verily I say unto you, shall all be
fulfilled.

3 Nephi 15:7
 7 And because I said unto you that old things have passed away,
I do not destroy that which hath been spoken concerning things
which are to come.

3 Nephi 15:8
 8 For behold, the covenant which I have made with my people is
not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an
end in me.

3 Nephi 15:9
 9 Behold, I am the law, and the light. Look unto me, and endure
to the end, and ye shall live; for unto him that endureth to the
end will I give eternal life.

3 Nephi 15:10
 10 Behold, I have given unto you the commandments; therefore
keep my commandments. And this is the law and the prophets, for
they truly testified of me.

3 Nephi 15:11
 11 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he said unto those twelve whom he had chosen:

3 Nephi 15:12
 12 Ye are my disciples; and ye are a light unto this people, who
are a remnant of the house of Joseph.

3 Nephi 15:13
 13 And behold, this is the land of your inheritance; and the
Father hath given it unto you.

3 Nephi 15:14
 14 And not at any time hath the Father given me commandment that
I should tell it unto your brethren at Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 15:15
 15 Neither at any time hath the Father given me commandment that
I should tell unto them concerning the other tribes of the house
of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land.

3 Nephi 15:16
 16 This much did the Father command me, that I should tell unto
them:

3 Nephi 15:17
 17 That other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also
I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be
one fold, and one shepherd.

3 Nephi 15:18
 18 And now, because of stiffneckedness and unbelief they
understood not my word; therefore I was commanded to say no more
of the Father concerning this thing unto them.

3 Nephi 15:19
 19 But, verily, I say unto you that the Father hath commanded
me, and I tell it unto you, that ye were separated from among
them because of their iniquity; therefore it is because of their
iniquity that they know not of you.

3 Nephi 15:20
 20 And verily, I say unto you again that the other tribes hath
the Father separated from them; and it is because of their
iniquity that they know not of them.

3 Nephi 15:21
 21 And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said:
Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must
bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold,
and one shepherd.

3 Nephi 15:22
 22 And they understood me not, for they supposed it had been the
Gentiles; for they understood not that the Gentiles should be
converted through their preaching.

3 Nephi 15:23
 23 And they understood me not that I said they shall hear my
voice; and they understood me not that the Gentiles should not at
any time hear my voice--that I should not manifest myself unto
them save it were by the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 15:24
 24 But behold, ye have both heard my voice, and seen me; and ye
are my sheep, and ye are numbered among those whom the Father
hath given me.

