3 Nephi 29
Chapter 29

3 Nephi 29:1
 1 And now behold, I say unto you that when the Lord shall see
fit, in his wisdom, that these sayings shall come unto the
Gentiles according to his word, then ye may know that the
covenant which the Father hath made with the children of Israel,
concerning their restoration to the lands of their inheritance,
is already beginning to be fulfilled.

3 Nephi 29:2
 2 And ye may know that the words of the Lord, which have been
spoken by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and ye need
not say that the Lord delays his coming unto the children of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:3
 3 And ye need not imagine in your hearts that the words which
have been spoken are vain, for behold, the Lord will remember his
covenant which he hath made unto his people of the house of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:4
 4 And when ye shall see these sayings coming forth among you,
then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings of the Lord, for
the sword of his justice is in his right hand; and behold, at
that day, if ye shall spurn at his doings he will cause that it
shall soon overtake you.

3 Nephi 29:5
 5 Wo unto him that spurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, wo
unto him that shall deny the Christ and his works!

3 Nephi 29:6
 6 Yea, wo unto him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord,
and that shall say the Lord no longer worketh by revelation, or
by prophecy, or by gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by
the power of the Holy Ghost!

3 Nephi 29:7
 7 Yea, and wo unto him that shall say at that day, to get gain,
that there can be no miracle wrought by Jesus Christ; for he that
doeth this shall become like unto the son of perdition, for whom
there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ!

3 Nephi 29:8
 8 Yea, and ye need not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor make game
of the Jews, nor any of the remnant of the house of Israel; for
behold, the Lord remembereth his covenant unto them, and he will
do unto them according to that which he hath sworn.

3 Nephi 29:9
 9 Therefore ye need not suppose that ye can turn the right hand
of the Lord unto the left, that he may not execute judgment unto
the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the house
of Israel.

