3 Nephi 11
Chapter 11

3 Nephi 11:1
 1 And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude
gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple
which was in the land Bountiful; and they were marveling and
wondering one with another, and were showing one to another the
great and marvelous change which had taken place.
3 Nephi 11:2
 2 And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom
the sign had been given concerning his death.

3 Nephi 11:3
 3 And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one
with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and
they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the
voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was
it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a
small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center,
insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not
cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did
cause their hearts to burn.

3 Nephi 11:4
 4 And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they
understood it not.

3 Nephi 11:5
 5 And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open
their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound
thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from
whence the sound came.

3 Nephi 11:6
 6 And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which
they heard; and it said unto them:

3 Nephi 11:7
 7 Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I
have glorified my name--hear ye him.

3 Nephi 11:8
 8 And it came to pass, as they understood they cast their eyes
up again towards heaven; and behold, they saw a Man descending
out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came
down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole
multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their
mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they
thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them.

3 Nephi 11:9
 9 And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake
unto the people, saying:

3 Nephi 11:10
 10 Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall
come into the world.

3 Nephi 11:11
 11 And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I
have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me,
and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the
world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all
things from the beginning.

3 Nephi 11:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
the whole multitude fell to the earth; for they remembered that
it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself
unto them after his ascension into heaven.

3 Nephi 11:13
 13 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying:

3 Nephi 11:14
 14 Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands
into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails
in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of
Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for
the sins of the world.

3 Nephi 11:15
 15 And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust
their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails
in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth
one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their
eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and
did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the
prophets, that should come.

3 Nephi 11:16
 16 And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for
themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying:

3 Nephi 11:17
 17 Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they
did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him.

3 Nephi 11:18
 18 And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi (for Nephi was
among the multitude) and he commanded him that he should come
forth.

3 Nephi 11:19
 19 And Nephi arose and went forth, and bowed himself before the
Lord and did kiss his feet.

3 Nephi 11:20
 20 And the Lord commanded him that he should arise. And he
arose and stood before him.

3 Nephi 11:21
 21 And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you power that ye
shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven.

3 Nephi 11:22
 22 And again the Lord called others, and said unto them
likewise; and he gave unto them power to baptize. And he said
unto them: On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no
disputations among you.

3 Nephi 11:23
 23 Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins
through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on
this wise shall ye baptize them--Behold, ye shall go down and
stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them.

3 Nephi 11:24
 24 And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say,
calling them by name, saying:

3 Nephi 11:25
 25 Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in
the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.

3 Nephi 11:26
 26 And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth
again out of the water.

3 Nephi 11:27
 27 And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for
behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and
the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in
me, and the Father and I are one.

3 Nephi 11:28
 28 And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize.
And there shall be no disputations among you, as there have
hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you
concerning the points of my doctrine, as there have hitherto
been.

3 Nephi 11:29
 29 For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of
contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father
of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend
with anger, one with another.

3 Nephi 11:30
 30 Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men
with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that
such things should be done away.

3 Nephi 11:31
 31 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will declare unto
you my doctrine.

3 Nephi 11:32
 32 And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the
Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and
the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost beareth
record of the Father and me; and I bear record that the Father
commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me.

3 Nephi 11:33
 33 And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be
saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:34
 34 And whoso believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be
damned.

3 Nephi 11:35
 35 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and
I bear record of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me
believeth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father bear
record of me, for he will visit him with fire and with the Holy
Ghost.

3 Nephi 11:36
 36 And thus will the Father bear record of me, and the Holy
Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father and me; for the
Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost are one.

3 Nephi 11:37
 37 And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and become as a
little child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowise
receive these things.

3 Nephi 11:38
 38 And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in
my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise
inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:39
 39 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and
whoso buildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of
hell shall not prevail against them.

3 Nephi 11:40
 40 And whoso shall declare more or less than this, and establish
it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not built
upon my rock; but he buildeth upon a sandy foundation, and the
gates of hell stand open to receive such when the floods come and
the winds beat upon them.

3 Nephi 11:41
 41 Therefore, go forth unto this people, and declare the words
which I have spoken, unto the ends of the earth.

