3 Nephi 8
Chapter 8

3 Nephi 8:1
 1 And now it came to pass that according to our record, and we
know our record to be true, for behold, it was a just man who did
keep the record--for he truly did many miracles in the name of
Jesus; and there was not any man who could do a miracle in the
name of Jesus save he were cleansed every whit from his
iniquity--

3 Nephi 8:2
 2 And now it came to pass, if there was no mistake made by this
man in the reckoning of our time, the thirty and third year had
passed away;

3 Nephi 8:3
 3 And the people began to look with great earnestness for the
sign which had been given by the prophet Samuel, the Lamanite,
yea, for the time that there should be darkness for the space of
three days over the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:4
 4 And there began to be great doubtings and disputations among
the people, notwithstanding so many signs had been given.

3 Nephi 8:5
 5 And it came to pass in the thirty and fourth year, in the
first month, on the fourth day of the month, there arose a great
storm, such an one as never had been known in all the land.

3 Nephi 8:6
 6 And there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was
terrible thunder, insomuch that it did shake the whole earth as
if it was about to divide asunder.

3 Nephi 8:7
 7 And there were exceedingly sharp lightnings, such as never had
been known in all the land.

3 Nephi 8:8
 8 And the city of Zarahemla did take fire.

3 Nephi 8:9
 9 And the city of Moroni did sink into the depths of the sea,
and the inhabitants thereof were drowned.

3 Nephi 8:10
 10 And the earth was carried up upon the city of Moronihah that
in the place of the city there became a great mountain.

3 Nephi 8:11
 11 And there was a great and terrible destruction in the land
southward.

3 Nephi 8:12
 12 But behold, there was a more great and terrible destruction
in the land northward; for behold, the whole face of the land was
changed, because of the tempest and the whirlwinds and the
thunderings and the lightnings, and the exceedingly great quaking
of the whole earth;

3 Nephi 8:13
 13 And the highways were broken up, and the level roads were
spoiled, and many smooth places became rough.

3 Nephi 8:14
 14 And many great and notable cities were sunk, and many were
burned, and many were shaken till the buildings thereof had
fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants thereof were slain, and
the places were left desolate.

3 Nephi 8:15
 15 And there were some cities which remained; but the damage
thereof was exceedingly great, and there were many of them who
were slain.

3 Nephi 8:16
 16 And there were some who were carried away in the whirlwind;
and whither they went no man knoweth, save they know that they
were carried away.

3 Nephi 8:17
 17 And thus the face of the whole earth became deformed, because
of the tempests, and the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the
quaking of the earth.

3 Nephi 8:18
 18 And behold, the rocks were rent in twain; they were broken up
upon the face of the whole earth, insomuch that they were found
in broken fragments, and in seams and in cracks, upon all the
face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:19
 19 And it came to pass that when the thunderings, and the
lightnings, and the storm, and the tempest, and the quakings of
the earth did cease--for behold, they did last for about the
space of three hours; and it was said by some that the time was
greater; nevertheless, all these great and terrible things were
done in about the space of three hours--and then behold, there
was darkness upon the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:20
 20 And it came to pass that there was thick darkness upon all
the face of the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof who
had not fallen could feel the vapor of darkness;

3 Nephi 8:21
 21 And there could be no light, because of the darkness, neither
candles, neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled
with their fine and exceedingly dry wood, so that there could not
be any light at all;

3 Nephi 8:22
 22 And there was not any light seen, neither fire, nor glimmer,
neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so great were
the mists of darkness which were upon the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:23
 23 And it came to pass that it did last for the space of three
days that there was no light seen; and there was great mourning
and howling and weeping among all the people continually; yea,
great were the groanings of the people, because of the darkness
and the great destruction which had come upon them.

3 Nephi 8:24
 24 And in one place they were heard to cry, saying: O that we
had repented before this great and terrible day, and then would
our brethren have been spared, and they would not have been
burned in that great city Zarahemla.

3 Nephi 8:25
 25 And in another place they were heard to cry and mourn,
saying: O that we had repented before this great and terrible
day, and had not killed and stoned the prophets, and cast them
out; then would our mothers and our fair daughters, and our
children have been spared, and not have been buried up in that
great city Moronihah. And thus were the howlings of the people
great and terrible.

