Mormon 4
Chapter 4

Mormon 4:1
 1 And now it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty
and third year the Nephites did go up with their armies to battle
against the Lamanites, out of the land Desolation.

Mormon 4:2
 2 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites were
driven back again to the land of Desolation. And while they were
yet weary, a fresh army of the Lamanites did come upon them; and
they had a sore battle, insomuch that the Lamanites did take
possession of the city Desolation, and did slay many of the
Nephites, and did take many prisoners.

Mormon 4:3
 3 And the remainder did flee and join the inhabitants of the
city Teancum. Now the city Teancum lay in the borders by the
seashore; and it was also near the city Desolation.

Mormon 4:4
 4 And it was because the armies of the Nephites went up unto the
Lamanites that they began to be smitten; for were it not for
that, the Lamanites could have had no power over them.

Mormon 4:5
 5 But, behold, the judgments of God will overtake the wicked;
and it is by the wicked that the wicked are punished; for it is
the wicked that stir up the hearts of the children of men unto
bloodshed.

Mormon 4:6
 6 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did make preparations
to come against the city Teancum.

Mormon 4:7
 7 And it came to pass in the three hundred and sixty and fourth
year the Lamanites did come against the city Teancum, that they
might take possession of the city Teancum also.

Mormon 4:8
 8 And it came to pass that they were repulsed and driven back by
the Nephites. And when the Nephites saw that they had driven the
Lamanites they did again boast of their own strength; and they
went forth in their own might, and took possession again of the
city Desolation.

Mormon 4:9
 9 And now all these things had been done, and there had been
thousands slain on both sides, both the Nephites and the
Lamanites.

Mormon 4:10
 10 And it came to pass that the three hundred and sixty and
sixth year had passed away, and the Lamanites came again upon the
Nephites to battle; and yet the Nephites repented not of the evil
they had done, but persisted in their wickedness continually.

Mormon 4:11
 11 And it is impossible for the tongue to describe, or for man
to write a perfect description of the horrible scene of the blood
and carnage which was among the people, both of the Nephites and
of the Lamanites; and every heart was hardened, so that they
delighted in the shedding of blood continually.

Mormon 4:12
 12 And there never had been so great wickedness among all the
children of Lehi, nor even among all the house of Israel,
according to the words of the Lord, as was among this people.

Mormon 4:13
 13 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did take possession of
the city Desolation, and this because their number did exceed the
number of the Nephites.

Mormon 4:14
 14 And they did also march forward against the city Teancum, and
did drive the inhabitants forth out of her, and did take many
prisoners both women and children, and did offer them up as
sacrifices unto their idol gods.

Mormon 4:15
 15 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and
seventh year, the Nephites being angry because the Lamanites had
sacrificed their women and their children, that they did go
against the Lamanites with exceedingly great anger, insomuch that
they did beat again the Lamanites, and drive them out of their
lands.

Mormon 4:16
 16 And the Lamanites did not come again against the Nephites
until the three hundred and seventy and fifth year.

Mormon 4:17
 17 And in this year they did come down against the Nephites with
all their powers; and they were not numbered because of the
greatness of their number.

Mormon 4:18
 18 And from this time forth did the Nephites gain no power over
the Lamanites, but began to be swept off by them even as a dew
before the sun.

Mormon 4:19
 19 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come down against
the city Desolation; and there was an exceedingly sore battle
fought in the land Desolation, in the which they did beat the
Nephites.

Mormon 4:20
 20 And they fled again from before them, and they came to the
city Boaz; and there they did stand against the Lamanites with
exceeding boldness, insomuch that the Lamanites did not beat them
until they had come again the second time.

Mormon 4:21
 21 And when they had come the second time, the Nephites were
driven and slaughtered with an exceedingly great slaughter; their
women and their children were again sacrificed unto idols.

Mormon 4:22
 22 And it came to pass that the Nephites did again flee from
before them, taking all the inhabitants with them, both in towns
and villages.

Mormon 4:23
 23 And now I, Mormon, seeing that the Lamanites were about to
overthrow the land, therefore I did go to the hill Shim, and did
take up all the records which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord.

