Mormon 5
Chapter 5

Mormon 5:1
 1 And it came to pass that I did go forth among the Nephites,
and did repent of the oath which I had made that I would no more
assist them; and they gave me command again of their armies, for
they looked upon me as though I could deliver them from their
afflictions.

Mormon 5:2
 2 But behold, I was without hope, for I knew the judgments of
the Lord which should come upon them; for they repented not of
their iniquities, but did struggle for their lives without
calling upon that Being who created them.

Mormon 5:3
 3 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come against us as
we had fled to the city of Jordan; but behold, they were driven
back that they did not take the city at that time.

Mormon 5:4
 4 And it came to pass that they came against us again, and we
did maintain the city. And there were also other cities which
were maintained by Nephites, which strongholds did cut them off
that they could not get into the country which lay before us, to
destroy the inhabitants of our land.

Mormon 5:5
 5 And it came to pass that whatsoever lands we had passed by,
and the inhabitants thereof were not gathered in, were destroyed
by the Lamanites, and their towns, and villages, and cities were
burned with fire; and thus three hundred and seventy and nine
years passed away.

Mormon 5:6
 6 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and eightieth
year the Lamanites did come again against us to battle, and we
did stand against them boldly; but it was all in vain, for so
great were their numbers that they did tread the people of the
Nephites under their feet.

Mormon 5:7
 7 And it came to pass that we did again take to flight, and
those whose flight was swifter than the Lamanites' did escape,
and those whose flight did not exceed the Lamanites' were swept
down and destroyed.

Mormon 5:8
 8 And now behold, I, Mormon, do not desire to harrow up the
souls of men in casting before them such an awful scene of blood
and carnage as was laid before mine eyes; but I, knowing that
these things must surely be made known, and that all things which
are hid must be revealed upon the house-tops--

Mormon 5:9
 9 And also that a knowledge of these things must come unto the
remnant of these people, and also unto the Gentiles, who the Lord
hath said should scatter this people, and this people should be
counted as naught among them--therefore I write a small
abridgment, daring not to give a full account of the things which
I have seen, because of the commandment which I have received,
and also that ye might not have too great sorrow because of the
wickedness of this people.

Mormon 5:10
 10 And now behold, this I speak unto their seed, and also to the
Gentiles who have care for the house of Israel, that realize and
know from whence their blessings come.

Mormon 5:11
 11 For I know that such will sorrow for the calamity of the
house of Israel; yea, they will sorrow for the destruction of
this people; they will sorrow that this people had not repented
that they might have been clasped in the arms of Jesus.

Mormon 5:12
 12 Now these things are written unto the remnant of the house of
Jacob; and they are written after this manner, because it is
known of God that wickedness will not bring them forth unto them;
and they are to be hid up unto the Lord that they may come forth
in his own due time.

Mormon 5:13
 13 And this is the commandment which I have received; and
behold, they shall come forth according to the commandment of the
Lord, when he shall see fit, in his wisdom.

Mormon 5:14
 14 And behold, they shall go unto the unbelieving of the Jews;
and for this intent shall they go--that they may be persuaded
that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that the
Father may bring about, through his most Beloved, his great and
eternal purpose, in restoring the Jews, or all the house of
Israel, to the land of their inheritance, which the Lord their
God hath given them, unto the fulfilling of his covenant;

Mormon 5:15
 15 And also that the seed of this people may more fully believe
his gospel, which shall go forth unto them from the Gentiles; for
this people shall be scattered, and shall become a dark, a
filthy, and a loathsome people, beyond the description of that
which ever hath been amongst us, yea, even that which hath been
among the Lamanites, and this because of their unbelief and
idolatry.

Mormon 5:16
 16 For behold, the Spirit of the Lord hath already ceased to
strive with their fathers; and they are without Christ and God in
the world; and they are driven about as chaff before the wind.

Mormon 5:17
 17 They were once a delightsome people, and they had Christ for
their shepherd; yea, they were led even by God the Father.

Mormon 5:18
 18 But now, behold, they are led about by Satan, even as chaff
is driven before the wind, or as a vessel is tossed about upon
the waves, without sail or anchor, or without anything wherewith
to steer her; and even as she is, so are they.

Mormon 5:19
 19 And behold, the Lord hath reserved their blessings, which
they might have received in the land, for the Gentiles who shall
possess the land.

Mormon 5:20
 20 But behold, it shall come to pass that they shall be driven
and scattered by the Gentiles; and after they have been driven
and scattered by the Gentiles, behold, then will the Lord
remember the covenant which he made unto Abraham and unto all the
house of Israel.

Mormon 5:21
 21 And also the Lord will remember the prayers of the righteous,
which have been put up unto him for them.

Mormon 5:22
 22 And then, O ye Gentiles, how can ye stand before the power of
God, except ye shall repent and turn from your evil ways?

Mormon 5:23
 23 Know ye not that ye are in the hands of God? Know ye not
that he hath all power, and at his great command the earth shall
be rolled together as a scroll?

Mormon 5:24
 24 Therefore, repent ye, and humble yourselves before him, lest
he shall come out in justice against you--lest a remnant of the
seed of Jacob shall go forth among you as a lion, and tear you in
pieces, and there is none to deliver.

