Mormon 1
Chapter 1

Mormon 1:1
 1 And now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which I have
both seen and heard, and call it the Book of Mormon.

Mormon 1:2
 2 And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto the
Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years of age, and I
began to be learned somewhat after the manner of the learning of
my people) and Ammaron said unto me: I perceive that thou art a
sober child, and art quick to observe;

Mormon 1:3
 3 Therefore, when ye are about twenty and four years old I would
that ye should remember the things that ye have observed
concerning this people; and when ye are of that age go to the
land Antum, unto a hill which shall be called Shim; and there
have I deposited unto the Lord all the sacred engravings
concerning this people.

Mormon 1:4
 4 And behold, ye shall take the plates of Nephi unto yourself,
and the remainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and
ye shall engrave on the plates of Nephi all the things that ye
have observed concerning this people.

Mormon 1:5
 5 And I, Mormon, being a descendant of Nephi, (and my father's
name was Mormon) I remembered the things which Ammaron commanded
me.

Mormon 1:6
 6 And it came to pass that I, being eleven years old, was
carried by my father into the land southward, even to the land of
Zarahemla.

Mormon 1:7
 7 The whole face of the land had become covered with buildings,
and the people were as numerous almost, as it were the sand of
the sea.

Mormon 1:8
 8 And it came to pass in this year there began to be a war
between the Nephites, who consisted of the Nephites and the
Jacobites and the Josephites and the Zoramites; and this war was
between the Nephites, and the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and
the Ishmaelites.

Mormon 1:9
 9 Now the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites were
called Lamanites, and the two parties were Nephites and
Lamanites.

Mormon 1:10
 10 And it came to pass that the war began to be among them in
the borders of Zarahemla, by the waters of Sidon.

Mormon 1:11
 11 And it came to pass that the Nephites had gathered together a
great number of men, even to exceed the number of thirty
thousand. And it came to pass that they did have in this same
year a number of battles, in which the Nephites did beat the
Lamanites and did slay many of them.

Mormon 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that the Lamanites withdrew their design,
and there was peace settled in the land; and peace did remain for
the space of about four years, that there was no bloodshed.

Mormon 1:13
 13 But wickedness did prevail upon the face of the whole land,
insomuch that the Lord did take away his beloved disciples, and
the work of miracles and of healing did cease because of the
iniquity of the people.

Mormon 1:14
 14 And there were no gifts from the Lord, and the Holy Ghost did
not come upon any, because of their wickedness and unbelief.

Mormon 1:15
 15 And I, being fifteen years of age and being somewhat of a
sober mind, therefore I was visited of the Lord, and tasted and
knew of the goodness of Jesus.

Mormon 1:16
 16 And I did endeavor to preach unto this people, but my mouth
was shut, and I was forbidden that I should preach unto them; for
behold they had wilfully rebelled against their God; and the
beloved disciples were taken away out of the land, because of
their iniquity.

Mormon 1:17
 17 But I did remain among them, but I was forbidden to preach
unto them, because of the hardness of their hearts; and because
of the hardness of their hearts the land was cursed for their
sake.

Mormon 1:18
 18 And these Gadianton robbers, who were among the Lamanites,
did infest the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof began
to hide up their treasures in the earth; and they became
slippery, because the Lord had cursed the land, that they could
not hold them, nor retain them again.

Mormon 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that there were sorceries, and
witchcrafts, and magics; and the power of the evil one was
wrought upon all the face of the land, even unto the fulfilling
of all the words of Abinadi, and also Samuel the Lamanite.

