Moroni 8
Chapter 8

Moroni 8:1
 1 An epistle of my father Mormon, written to me, Moroni; and it
was written unto me soon after my calling to the ministry. And
on this wise did he write unto me, saying:

Moroni 8:2
 2 My beloved son, Moroni, I rejoice exceedingly that your Lord
Jesus Christ hath been mindful of you, and hath called you to his
ministry, and to his holy work.

Moroni 8:3
 3 I am mindful of you always in my prayers, continually praying
unto God the Father in the name of his Holy Child, Jesus, that
he, through his infinite goodness and grace, will keep you
through the endurance of faith on his name to the end.

Moroni 8:4
 4 And now, my son, I speak unto you concerning that which
grieveth me exceedingly; for it grieveth me that there should
disputations rise among you.

Moroni 8:5
 5 For, if I have learned the truth, there have been disputations
among you concerning the baptism of your little children.

Moroni 8:6
 6 And now, my son, I desire that ye should labor diligently,
that this gross error should be removed from among you; for, for
this intent I have written this epistle.

Moroni 8:7
 7 For immediately after I had learned these things of you I
inquired of the Lord concerning the matter. And the word of the
Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying:

Moroni 8:8
 8 Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and
your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the
righteous but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician,
but they that are sick; wherefore, little children are whole, for
they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of
Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them;
and the law of circumcision is done away in me.

Moroni 8:9
 9 And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of
God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn
mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.

Moroni 8:10
 10 Behold I say unto you that this thing shall ye
teach--repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and
capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must
repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little
children, and they shall all be saved with their little children.

Moroni 8:11
 11 And their little children need no repentance, neither
baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling
the commandments unto the remission of sins.

Moroni 8:12
 12 But little children are alive in Christ, even from the
foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and
also a changeable God, and a respecter to persons; for how many
little children have died without baptism!

Moroni 8:13
 13 Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without
baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell.

Moroni 8:14
 14 Behold I say unto you, that he that supposeth that little
children need baptism is in the gall of bitterness and in the
bonds of iniquity, for he hath neither faith, hope, nor charity;
wherefore, should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go
down to hell.

Moroni 8:15
 15 For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one
child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he
hath no baptism.

Moroni 8:16
 16 Wo be unto them that shall pervert the ways of the Lord after
this manner, for they shall perish except they repent. Behold, I
speak with boldness, having authority from God; and I fear not
what man can do; for perfect love casteth out all fear.

Moroni 8:17
 17 And I am filled with charity, which is everlasting love;
wherefore, all children are alike unto me; wherefore, I love
little children with a perfect love; and they are all alike and
partakers of salvation.

Moroni 8:18
 18 For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a
changeable being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity to all
eternity.

Moroni 8:19
 19 Little children cannot repent; wherefore, it is awful
wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they
are all alive in him because of his mercy.

Moroni 8:20
 20 And he that saith that little children need baptism denieth
the mercies of Christ, and setteth at naught the atonement of him
and the power of his redemption.

Moroni 8:21
 21 Wo unto such, for they are in danger of death, hell, and an
endless torment. I speak it boldly; God hath commanded me.
Listen unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the
judgment-seat of Christ.

Moroni 8:22
 22 For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and
also all they that are without the law. For the power of
redemption cometh on all them that have no law; wherefore, he
that is not condemned, or he that is under no condemnation,
cannot repent; and unto such baptism availeth nothing--

Moroni 8:23
 23 But it is mockery before God, denying the mercies of Christ,
and the power of his Holy Spirit, and putting trust in dead
works.

Moroni 8:24
 24 Behold, my son, this thing ought not to be; for repentance is
unto them that are under condemnation and under the curse of a
broken law.

Moroni 8:25
 25 And the first fruits of repentance is baptism; and baptism
cometh by faith unto the fulfilling the commandments; and the
fulfilling the commandments bringeth remission of sins;

Moroni 8:26
 26 And the remission of sins bringeth meekness, and lowliness of
heart; and because of meekness and lowliness of heart cometh the
visitation of the Holy Ghost, which Comforter filleth with hope
and perfect love, which love endureth by diligence unto prayer,
until the end shall come, when all the saints shall dwell with
God.

Moroni 8:27
 27 Behold, my son, I will write unto you again if I go not out
soon against the Lamanites. Behold, the pride of this nation, or
the people of the Nephites, hath proven their destruction except
they should repent.

Moroni 8:28
 28 Pray for them, my son, that repentance may come unto them.
But behold, I fear lest the Spirit hath ceased striving with
them; and in this part of the land they are also seeking to put
down all power and authority which cometh from God; and they are
denying the Holy Ghost.

Moroni 8:29
 29 And after rejecting so great a knowledge, my son, they must
perish soon, unto the fulfilling of the prophecies which were
spoken by the prophets, as well as the words of our Savior
himself.

Moroni 8:30
 30 Farewell, my son, until I shall write unto you, or shall meet
you again. Amen.

