1 Nephi 14
Chapter 14

1 Nephi 14:1
 1 And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall hearken
unto the Lamb of God in that day that he shall manifest himself
unto them in word, and also in power, in very deed, unto the
taking away of their stumbling blocks--

1 Nephi 14:2
 2 And harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they
shall be numbered among the seed of thy father; yea, they shall
be numbered among the house of Israel; and they shall be a
blessed people upon the promised land forever; they shall be no
more brought down into captivity; and the house of Israel shall
no more be confounded.

1 Nephi 14:3
 3 And that great pit, which hath been digged for them by that
great and abominable church, which was founded by the devil and
his children, that he might lead away the souls of men down to
hell--yea, that great pit which hath been digged for the
destruction of men shall be filled by those who digged it, unto
their utter destruction, saith the Lamb of God; not the
destruction of the soul, save it be the casting of it into that
hell which hath no end.

1 Nephi 14:4
 4 For behold, this is according to the captivity of the devil,
and also according to the justice of God, upon all those who will
work wickedness and abomination before him.

1 Nephi 14:5
 5 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, Nephi,
saying: Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent it shall be
well with them; and thou also knowest concerning the covenants of
the Lord unto the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard that
whoso repenteth not must perish.

1 Nephi 14:6
 6 Therefore, wo be unto the Gentiles if it so be that they
harden their hearts against the Lamb of God.

1 Nephi 14:7
 7 For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a
great and a marvelous work among the children of men; a work
which shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or on the
other--either to the convincing of them unto peace and life
eternal, or unto the deliverance of them to the hardness of their
hearts and the blindness of their minds unto their being brought
down into captivity, and also into destruction, both temporally
and spiritually, according to the captivity of the devil, of
which I have spoken.

1 Nephi 14:8
 8 And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these
words, he said unto me: Rememberest thou the covenants of the
Father unto the house of Israel? I said unto him, Yea.

1 Nephi 14:9
 9 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look, and behold
that great and abominable church, which is the mother of
abominations, whose founder is the devil.

1 Nephi 14:10
 10 And he said unto me: Behold there are save two churches only;
the one is the church of the Lamb of God, and the other is the
church of the devil; wherefore, whoso belongeth not to the church
of the Lamb of God belongeth to that great church, which is the
mother of abominations; and she is the whore of all the earth.

1 Nephi 14:11
 11 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore of all
the earth, and she sat upon many waters; and she had dominion
over all the earth, among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and
people.

1 Nephi 14:12
 12 And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the Lamb of
God, and its numbers were few, because of the wickedness and
abominations of the whore who sat upon many waters; nevertheless,
I beheld that the church of the Lamb, who were the saints of God,
were also upon all the face of the earth; and their dominions
upon the face of the earth were small, because of the wickedness
of the great whore whom I saw.

1 Nephi 14:13
 13 And it came to pass that I beheld that the great mother of
abominations did gather together multitudes upon the face of all
the earth, among all the nations of the Gentiles, to fight
against the Lamb of God.

1 Nephi 14:14
 14 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the
Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of
the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were
scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were armed
with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory.

1 Nephi 14:15
 15 And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath of God was
poured out upon that great and abominable church, insomuch that
there were wars and rumors of wars among all the nations and
kindreds of the earth.

1 Nephi 14:16
 16 And as there began to be wars and rumors of wars among all
the nations which belonged to the mother of abominations, the
angel spake unto me, saying: Behold, the wrath of God is upon the
mother of harlots; and behold, thou seest all these things--

1 Nephi 14:17
 17 And when the day cometh that the wrath of God is poured out
upon the mother of harlots, which is the great and abominable
church of all the earth, whose founder is the devil, then, at
that day, the work of the Father shall commence, in preparing the
way for the fulfilling of his covenants, which he hath made to
his people who are of the house of Israel.

1 Nephi 14:18
 18 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying:
Look!

1 Nephi 14:19
 19 And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed in a white
robe.

1 Nephi 14:20
 20 And the angel said unto me: Behold one of the twelve apostles
of the Lamb.

1 Nephi 14:21
 21 Behold, he shall see and write the remainder of these things;
yea, and also many things which have been.

1 Nephi 14:22
 22 And he shall also write concerning the end of the world.

1 Nephi 14:23
 23 Wherefore, the things which he shall write are just and true;
and behold they are written in the book which thou beheld
proceeding out of the mouth of the Jew; and at the time they
proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, or, at the time the book
proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, the things which were
written were plain and pure, and most precious and easy to the
understanding of all men.

1 Nephi 14:24
 24 And behold, the things which this apostle of the Lamb shall
write are many things which thou hast seen; and behold, the
remainder shalt thou see.

1 Nephi 14:25
 25 But the things which thou shalt see hereafter thou shalt not
write; for the Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of
God that he should write them.

1 Nephi 14:26
 26 And also others who have been, to them hath he shown all
things, and they have written them; and they are sealed up to
come forth in their purity, according to the truth which is in
the Lamb, in the own due time of the Lord, unto the house of
Israel.

1 Nephi 14:27
 27 And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name of the
apostle of the Lamb was John, according to the word of the angel.

1 Nephi 14:28
 28 And behold, I, Nephi, am forbidden that I should write the
remainder of the things which I saw and heard; wherefore the
things which I have written sufficeth me; and I have written but
a small part of the things which I saw.

1 Nephi 14:29
 29 And I bear record that I saw the things which my father saw,
and the angel of the Lord did make them known unto me.

1 Nephi 14:30
 30 And now I make an end of speaking concerning the things which
I saw while I was carried away in the spirit; and if all the
things which I saw are not written, the things which I have
written are true. And thus it is. Amen.

