1 Nephi 20
Chapter 20

1 Nephi 20:1
 1 Hearken and hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the
name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, or
out of the waters of baptism, who swear by the name of the Lord,
and make mention of the God of Israel, yet they swear not in
truth nor in righteousness.

1 Nephi 20:2
 2 Nevertheless, they call themselves of the holy city, but they
do not stay themselves upon the God of Israel, who is the Lord of
Hosts; yea, the Lord of Hosts is his name.

1 Nephi 20:3
 3 Behold, I have declared the former things from the beginning;
and they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them. I did
show them suddenly.

1 Nephi 20:4
 4 And I did it because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy
neck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass;

1 Nephi 20:5
 5 And I have even from the beginning declared to thee; before it
came to pass I showed them thee; and I showed them for fear lest
thou shouldst say--mine idol hath done them, and my graven image,
and my molten image hath commanded them.

1 Nephi 20:6
 6 Thou hast seen and heard all this; and will ye not declare
them? And that I have showed thee new things from this time,
even hidden things, and thou didst not know them.

1 Nephi 20:7
 7 They are created now, and not from the beginning, even before
the day when thou heardest them not they were declared unto thee,
lest thou shouldst say--Behold I knew them.

1 Nephi 20:8
 8 Yea, and thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from
that time thine ear was not opened; for I knew that thou wouldst
deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the
womb.

1 Nephi 20:9
 9 Nevertheless, for my name's sake will I defer mine anger, and
for my praise will I refrain from thee, that I cut thee not off.

1 Nephi 20:10
 10 For, behold, I have refined thee, I have chosen thee in the
furnace of affliction.

1 Nephi 20:11
 11 For mine own sake, yea, for mine own sake will I do this, for
I will not suffer my name to be polluted, and I will not give my
glory unto another.

1 Nephi 20:12
 12 Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called, for I am he;
I am the first, and I am also the last.

1 Nephi 20:13
 13 Mine hand hath also laid the foundation of the earth, and my
right hand hath spanned the heavens. I call unto them and they
stand up together.

1 Nephi 20:14
 14 All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; who among them hath
declared these things unto them? The Lord hath loved him; yea,
and he will fulfill his word which he hath declared by them; and
he will do his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall come upon
the Chaldeans.

1 Nephi 20:15
 15 Also, saith the Lord; I the Lord, yea, I have spoken; yea, I
have called him to declare, I have brought him, and he shall make
his way prosperous.

1 Nephi 20:16
 16 Come ye near unto me; I have not spoken in secret; from the
beginning, from the time that it was declared have I spoken; and
the Lord God, and his Spirit, hath sent me.

1 Nephi 20:17
 17 And thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of
Israel; I have sent him, the Lord thy God who teacheth thee to
profit, who leadeth thee by the way thou shouldst go, hath done
it.

1 Nephi 20:18
 18 O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments--then had thy
peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the
sea.

1 Nephi 20:19
 19 Thy seed also had been as the sand; the offspring of thy
bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut
off nor destroyed from before me.

1 Nephi 20:20
 20 Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a
voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter to the end of the
earth; say ye: The Lord hath redeemed his servant Jacob.

1 Nephi 20:21
 21 And they thirsted not; he led them through the deserts; he
caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he clave the
rock also and the waters gushed out.

1 Nephi 20:22
 22 And notwithstanding he hath done all this, and greater also,
there is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked.

