1 Nephi 11
Chapter 11

1 Nephi 11:1
 1 For it came to pass after I had desired to know the things
that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to
make them known unto me, as I sat pondering in mine heart I was
caught away in the Spirit of the Lord, yea, into an exceedingly
high mountain, which I never had before seen, and upon which I
never had before set my foot.

1 Nephi 11:2
 2 And the Spirit said unto me: Behold, what desirest thou?

1 Nephi 11:3
 3 And I said: I desire to behold the things which my father saw.

1 Nephi 11:4
 4 And the Spirit said unto me: Believest thou that thy father
saw the tree of which he hath spoken?

1 Nephi 11:5
 5 And I said: Yea, thou knowest that I believe all the words of
my father.

1 Nephi 11:6
 6 And when I had spoken these words, the Spirit cried with a
loud voice, saying: Hosanna to the Lord, the most high God; for
he is God over all the earth, yea, even above all. And blessed
art thou, Nephi, because thou believest in the Son of the most
high God; wherefore, thou shalt behold the things which thou hast
desired.

1 Nephi 11:7
 7 And behold this thing shall be given unto thee for a sign,
that after thou hast beheld the tree which bore the fruit which
thy father tasted, thou shalt also behold a man descending out of
heaven, and him shall ye witness; and after ye have witnessed him
ye shall bear record that it is the Son of God.

1 Nephi 11:8
 8 And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me: Look! And I
looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the tree which my
father had seen; and the beauty thereof was far beyond, yea,
exceeding of all beauty; and the whiteness thereof did exceed the
whiteness of the driven snow.

1 Nephi 11:9
 9 And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto the
Spirit: I behold thou hast shown unto me the tree which is
precious above all.

1 Nephi 11:10
 10 And he said unto me: What desirest thou?

1 Nephi 11:11
 11 And I said unto him: To know the interpretation thereof--for
I spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I beheld that he was in
the form of a man; yet nevertheless, I knew that it was the
Spirit of the Lord; and he spake unto me as a man speaketh with
another.

1 Nephi 11:12
 12 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look! And I looked
as if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for he had gone from
before my presence.

1 Nephi 11:13
 13 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city
of Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city of
Nazareth; and in the city of Nazareth I beheld a virgin, and she
was exceedingly fair and white.

1 Nephi 11:14
 14 And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open; and an angel
came down and stood before me; and he said unto me: Nephi, what
beholdest thou?

1 Nephi 11:15
 15 And I said unto him: A virgin, most beautiful and fair above
all other virgins.

1 Nephi 11:16
 16 And he said unto me: Knowest thou the condescension of God?

1 Nephi 11:17
 17 And I said unto him: I know that he loveth his children;
nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things.

1 Nephi 11:18
 18 And he said unto me: Behold, the virgin whom thou seest is
the mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh.

1 Nephi 11:19
 19 And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away
in the Spirit; and after she had been carried away in the Spirit
for the space of a time the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!

1 Nephi 11:20
 20 And I looked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a child in
her arms.

1 Nephi 11:21
 21 And the angel said unto me: Behold the Lamb of God, yea, even
the Son of the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the
tree which thy father saw?

1 Nephi 11:22
 22 And I answered him, saying: Yea, it is the love of God, which
sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men;
wherefore, it is the most desirable above all things.

1 Nephi 11:23
 23 And he spake unto me, saying: Yea, and the most joyous to the
soul.

1 Nephi 11:24
 24 And after he had said these words, he said unto me: Look!
And I looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the
children of men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship
him.

1 Nephi 11:25
 25 And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of iron, which
my father had seen, was the word of God, which led to the
fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters
are a representation of the love of God; and I also beheld that
the tree of life was a representation of the love of God.

1 Nephi 11:26
 26 And the angel said unto me again: Look and behold the
condescension of God!

1 Nephi 11:27
 27 And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my
father had spoken; and I also beheld the prophet who should
prepare the way before him. And the Lamb of God went forth and
was baptized of him; and after he was baptized, I beheld the
heavens open, and the Holy Ghost come down out of heaven and
abide upon him in the form of a dove.

1 Nephi 11:28
 28 And I beheld that he went forth ministering unto the people,
in power and great glory; and the multitudes were gathered
together to hear him; and I beheld that they cast him out from
among them.

1 Nephi 11:29
 29 And I also beheld twelve others following him. And it came
to pass that they were carried away in the Spirit from before my
face, and I saw them not.

1 Nephi 11:30
 30 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again,
saying: Look! And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again,
and I saw angels descending upon the children of men; and they
did minister unto them.

1 Nephi 11:31
 31 And he spake unto me again, saying: Look! And I looked, and
I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men.
And I beheld multitudes of people who were sick, and who were
afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with devils and
unclean spirits; and the angel spake and showed all these things
unto me. And they were healed by the power of the Lamb of God;
and the devils and the unclean spirits were cast out.

1 Nephi 11:32
 32 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again,
saying: Look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he
was taken by the people; yea, the Son of the everlasting God was
judged of the world; and I saw and bear record.

1 Nephi 11:33
 33 And I, Nephi, saw that he was lifted up upon the cross and
slain for the sins of the world.

1 Nephi 11:34
 34 And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth,
that they were gathered together to fight against the apostles of
the Lamb; for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the
Lord.

1 Nephi 11:35
 35 And the multitude of the earth was gathered together; and I
beheld that they were in a large and spacious building, like unto
the building which my father saw. And the angel of the Lord
spake unto me again, saying: Behold the world and the wisdom
thereof; yea, behold the house of Israel hath gathered together
to fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

1 Nephi 11:36
 36 And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the
great and spacious building was the pride of the world; and it
fell, and the fall thereof was exceedingly great. And the angel
of the Lord spake unto me again, saying: Thus shall be the
destruction of all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, that
shall fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

