2 Nephi 29
Chapter 29

2 Nephi 29:1
 1 But behold, there shall be many--at that day when I shall
proceed to do a marvelous work among them, that I may remember my
covenants which I have made unto the children of men, that I may
set my hand again the second time to recover my people, which are
of the house of Israel;

2 Nephi 29:2
 2 And also, that I may remember the promises which I have made
unto thee, Nephi, and also unto thy father, that I would remember
your seed; and that the words of your seed should proceed forth
out of my mouth unto your seed; and my words shall hiss forth
unto the ends of the earth, for a standard unto my people, which
are of the house of Israel;

2 Nephi 29:3
 3 And because my words shall hiss forth--many of the Gentiles
shall say: A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there
cannot be any more Bible.

2 Nephi 29:4
 4 But thus saith the Lord God: O fools, they shall have a Bible;
and it shall proceed forth from the Jews, mine ancient covenant
people. And what thank they the Jews for the Bible which they
receive from them? Yea, what do the Gentiles mean? Do they
remember the travails, and the labors, and the pains of the Jews,
and their diligence unto me, in bringing forth salvation unto the
Gentiles?

2 Nephi 29:5
 5 O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine ancient
covenant people? Nay; but ye have cursed them, and have hated
them, and have not sought to recover them. But behold, I will
return all these things upon your own heads; for I the Lord have
not forgotten my people.

2 Nephi 29:6
 6 Thou fool, that shall say: A Bible, we have got a Bible, and
we need no more Bible. Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by
the Jews?

2 Nephi 29:7
 7 Know ye not that there are more nations than one? Know ye not
that I, the Lord your God, have created all men, and that I
remember those who are upon the isles of the sea; and that I rule
in the heavens above and in the earth beneath; and I bring forth
my word unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the nations
of the earth?

2 Nephi 29:8
 8 Wherefore murmur ye, because that ye shall receive more of my
word? Know ye not that the testimony of two nations is a witness
unto you that I am God, that I remember one nation like unto
another? Wherefore, I speak the same words unto one nation like
unto another. And when the two nations shall run together the
testimony of the two nations shall run together also.

2 Nephi 29:9
 9 And I do this that I may prove unto many that I am the same
yesterday, today, and forever; and that I speak forth my words
according to mine own pleasure. And because that I have spoken
one word ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another; for my
work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of
man, neither from that time henceforth and forever.

2 Nephi 29:10
 10 Wherefore, because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose
that it contains all my words; neither need ye suppose that I
have not caused more to be written.

2 Nephi 29:11
 11 For I command all men, both in the east and in the west, and
in the north, and in the south, and in the islands of the sea,
that they shall write the words which I speak unto them; for out
of the books which shall be written I will judge the world, every
man according to their works, according to that which is written.

2 Nephi 29:12
 12 For behold, I shall speak unto the Jews and they shall write
it; and I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall write
it; and I shall also speak unto the other tribes of the house of
Israel, which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I
shall also speak unto all nations of the earth and they shall
write it.

2 Nephi 29:13
 13 And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have the words
of the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have the words of the
Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews shall have the words of the
lost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes of Israel shall have
the words of the Nephites and the Jews.

2 Nephi 29:14
 14 And it shall come to pass that my people, which are of the
house of Israel, shall be gathered home unto the lands of their
possessions; and my word also shall be gathered in one. And I
will show unto them that fight against my word and against my
people, who are of the house of Israel, that I am God, and that I
covenanted with Abraham that I would remember his seed forever.

