2 Nephi 8
Chapter 8

2 Nephi 8:1
 1 Hearken unto me, ye that follow after righteousness. Look
unto the rock from whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit
from whence ye are digged.

2 Nephi 8:2
 2 Look unto Abraham, your father, and unto Sarah, she that bare
you; for I called him alone, and blessed him.

2 Nephi 8:3
 3 For the Lord shall comfort Zion, he will comfort all her waste
places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert
like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found
therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody.

2 Nephi 8:4
 4 Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my nation;
for a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to
rest for a light for the people.

2 Nephi 8:5
 5 My righteousness is near; my salvation is gone forth, and mine
arm shall judge the people. The isles shall wait upon me, and on
mine arm shall they trust.

2 Nephi 8:6
 6 Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth
beneath; for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the
earth shall wax old like a garment; and they that dwell therein
shall die in like manner. But my salvation shall be forever, and
my righteousness shall not be abolished.

2 Nephi 8:7
 7 Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people in
whose heart I have written my law, fear ye not the reproach of
men, neither be ye afraid of their revilings.

2 Nephi 8:8
 8 For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm
shall eat them like wool. But my righteousness shall be forever,
and my salvation from generation to generation.

2 Nephi 8:9
 9 Awake, awake! Put on strength, O arm of the Lord; awake as in
the ancient days. Art thou not he that hath cut Rahab, and
wounded the dragon?

2 Nephi 8:10
 10 Art thou not he who hath dried the sea, the waters of the
great deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a way for the
ransomed to pass over?

2 Nephi 8:11
 11 Therefore, the redeemed of the Lord shall return, and come
with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy and holiness shall be
upon their heads; and they shall obtain gladness and joy; sorrow
and mourning shall flee away.

2 Nephi 8:12
 12 I am he; yea, I am he that comforteth you. Behold, who art
thou, that thou shouldst be afraid of man, who shall die, and of
the son of man, who shall be made like unto grass?

2 Nephi 8:13
 13 And forgettest the Lord thy maker, that hath stretched forth
the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth, and hast
feared continually every day, because of the fury of the
oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy? And where is the fury
of the oppressor?

2 Nephi 8:14
 14 The captive exile hasteneth, that he may be loosed, and that
he should not die in the pit, nor that his bread should fail.

2 Nephi 8:15
 15 But I am the Lord thy God, whose waves roared; the Lord of
Hosts is my name.

2 Nephi 8:16
 16 And I have put my words in thy mouth, and have covered thee
in the shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens and lay
the foundations of the earth, and say unto Zion: Behold, thou art
my people.

2 Nephi 8:17
 17 Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the
hand of the Lord the cup of his fury--thou hast drunken the dregs
of the cup of trembling wrung out--

2 Nephi 8:18
 18 And none to guide her among all the sons she hath brought
forth; neither that taketh her by the hand, of all the sons she
hath brought up.

2 Nephi 8:19
 19 These two sons are come unto thee, who shall be sorry for
thee--thy desolation and destruction, and the famine and the
sword--and by whom shall I comfort thee?

2 Nephi 8:20
 20 Thy sons have fainted, save these two; they lie at the head
of all the streets; as a wild bull in a net, they are full of the
fury of the Lord, the rebuke of thy God.

2 Nephi 8:21
 21 Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, and not
with wine:

2 Nephi 8:22
 22 Thus saith thy Lord, the Lord and thy God pleadeth the cause
of his people; behold, I have taken out of thine hand the cup of
trembling, the dregs of the cup of my fury; thou shalt no more
drink it again.

2 Nephi 8:23
 23 But I will put it into the hand of them that afflict thee;
who have said to thy soul: Bow down, that we may go over--and
thou hast laid thy body as the ground and as the street to them
that went over.

2 Nephi 8:24
 24 Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy
beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city; for henceforth
there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the
unclean.

2 Nephi 8:25
 25 Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem;
loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of
Zion.

