2 Nephi 23
Chapter 23

2 Nephi 23:1
 1 The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.

2 Nephi 23:2
 2 Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice
unto them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the
nobles.

2 Nephi 23:3
 3 I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my
mighty ones, for mine anger is not upon them that rejoice in my
highness.

2 Nephi 23:4
 4 The noise of the multitude in the mountains like as of a great
people, a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered
together, the Lord of Hosts mustereth the hosts of the battle.

2 Nephi 23:5
 5 They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, yea, the
Lord, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole
land.

2 Nephi 23:6
 6 Howl ye, for the day of the Lord is at hand; it shall come as
a destruction from the Almighty.

2 Nephi 23:7
 7 Therefore shall all hands be faint, every man's heart shall
melt;

2 Nephi 23:8
 8 And they shall be afraid; pangs and sorrows shall take hold of
them; they shall be amazed one at another; their faces shall be
as flames.

2 Nephi 23:9
 9 Behold, the day of the Lord cometh, cruel both with wrath and
fierce anger, to lay the land desolate; and he shall destroy the
sinners thereof out of it.

2 Nephi 23:10
 10 For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall
not give their light; the sun shall be darkened in his going
forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine.

2 Nephi 23:11
 11 And I will punish the world for evil, and the wicked for
their iniquity; I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease,
and will lay down the haughtiness of the terrible.

2 Nephi 23:12
 12 I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man
than the golden wedge of Ophir.

2 Nephi 23:13
 13 Therefore, I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall
remove out of her place, in the wrath of the Lord of Hosts, and
in the day of his fierce anger.

2 Nephi 23:14
 14 And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man
taketh up; and they shall every man turn to his own people, and
flee every one into his own land.

2 Nephi 23:15
 15 Every one that is proud shall be thrust through; yea, and
every one that is joined to the wicked shall fall by the sword.

2 Nephi 23:16
 16 Their children, also shall be dashed to pieces before their
eyes; their houses shall be spoiled and their wives ravished.

2 Nephi 23:17
 17 Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall
not regard silver and gold, nor shall they delight in it.

2 Nephi 23:18
 18 Their bows shall also dash the young men to pieces, and they
shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes shall not
spare children.

2 Nephi 23:19
 19 And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the
Chaldees' excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and
Gomorrah.

2 Nephi 23:20
 20 It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in
from generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch
tent there; neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.

2 Nephi 23:21
 21 But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their
houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell
there, and satyrs shall dance there.

2 Nephi 23:22
 22 And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their
desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces; and her
time is near to come, and her day shall not be prolonged. For I
will destroy her speedily; yea, for I will be merciful unto my
people, but the wicked shall perish.

