2 Nephi 28
Chapter 28

2 Nephi 28:1
 1 And now, behold, my brethren, I have spoken unto you,
according as the Spirit hath constrained me; wherefore, I know
that they must surely come to pass.

2 Nephi 28:2
 2 And the things which shall be written out of the book shall be
of great worth unto the children of men, and especially unto our
seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel.

2 Nephi 28:3
 3 For it shall come to pass in that day that the churches which
are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto
the other: Behold, I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say:
I, I am the Lord's; and thus shall every one say that hath built
up churches, and not unto the Lord--

2 Nephi 28:4
 4 And they shall contend one with another; and their priests
shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their
learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance.

2 Nephi 28:5
 5 And they deny the power of God, the Holy One of Israel; and
they say unto the people: Hearken unto us, and hear ye our
precept; for behold there is no God today, for the Lord and the
Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto
men;

2 Nephi 28:6
 6 Behold, hearken ye unto my precept; if they shall say there is
a miracle wrought by the hand of the Lord, believe it not; for
this day he is not a God of miracles; he hath done his work.

2 Nephi 28:7
 7 Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and
be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us.

2 Nephi 28:8
 8 And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and
be merry; nevertheless, fear God--he will justify in committing a
little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because
of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in
this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so
be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and
at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.

2 Nephi 28:9
 9 Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this
manner, false and vain and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed
up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels
from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark.

2 Nephi 28:10
 10 And the blood of the saints shall cry from the ground against
them.

2 Nephi 28:11
 11 Yea, they have all gone out of the way; they have become
corrupted.

2 Nephi 28:12
 12 Because of pride, and because of false teachers, and false
doctrine, their churches have become corrupted, and their
churches are lifted up; because of pride they are puffed up.

2 Nephi 28:13
 13 They rob the poor because of their fine sanctuaries; they rob
the poor because of their fine clothing; and they persecute the
meek and the poor in heart, because in their pride they are
puffed up.

2 Nephi 28:14
 14 They wear stiff necks and high heads; yea, and because of
pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and whoredoms, they have
all gone astray save it be a few, who are the humble followers of
Christ; nevertheless, they are led, that in many instances they
do err because they are taught by the precepts of men.

2 Nephi 28:15
 15 O the wise, and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed up
in the pride of their hearts, and all those who preach false
doctrines, and all those who commit whoredoms, and pervert the
right way of the Lord, wo, wo, wo be unto them, saith the Lord
God Almighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell!

2 Nephi 28:16
 16 Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of naught
and revile against that which is good, and say that is of no
worth! For the day shall come that the Lord God will speedily
visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day that they are
fully ripe in iniquity they shall perish.

2 Nephi 28:17
 17 But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of
their wickedness and abominations they shall not be destroyed,
saith the Lord of Hosts.

2 Nephi 28:18
 18 But behold, that great and abominable church, the whore of
all the earth, must tumble to the earth, and great must be the
fall thereof.

2 Nephi 28:19
 19 For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which
belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the
devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be
stirred up to anger, and perish;

2 Nephi 28:20
 20 For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the
children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is
good.

2 Nephi 28:21
 21 And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal
security, that they will say: All is well in Zion; yea, Zion
prospereth, all is well--and thus the devil cheateth their souls,
and leadeth them away carefully down to hell.

2 Nephi 28:22
 22 And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there
is no hell; and he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is
none--and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them
with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance.

2 Nephi 28:23
 23 Yea, they are grasped with death, and hell; and death, and
hell, and the devil, and all that have been seized therewith must
stand before the throne of God, and be judged according to their
works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them,
even a lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment.

2 Nephi 28:24
 24 Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion!

2 Nephi 28:25
 25 Wo be unto him that crieth: All is well!

2 Nephi 28:26
 26 Yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men,
and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost!

2 Nephi 28:27
 27 Yea, wo be unto him that saith: We have received, and we need
no more!

2 Nephi 28:28
 28 And in fine, wo unto all those who tremble, and are angry
because of the truth of God! For behold, he that is built upon
the rock receiveth it with gladness; and he that is built upon a
sandy foundation trembleth lest he shall fall.

2 Nephi 28:29
 29 Wo be unto him that shall say: We have received the word of
God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough!

2 Nephi 28:30
 30 For behold, thus saith the Lord God: I will give unto the
children of men line upon line, precept upon precept, here a
little and there a little; and blessed are those who hearken unto
my precepts, and lend an ear unto my counsel, for they shall
learn wisdom; for unto him that receiveth I will give more; and
from them that shall say, We have enough, from them shall be
taken away even that which they have.

2 Nephi 28:31
 31 Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh
his arm, or shall hearken unto the precepts of men, save their
precepts shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost.

2 Nephi 28:32
 32 Wo be unto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God of Hosts! For
notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto them from day
to day, they will deny me; nevertheless, I will be merciful unto
them, saith the Lord God, if they will repent and come unto me;
for mine arm is lengthened out all the day long, saith the Lord
God of Hosts.

