2 Nephi 19
Chapter 19

2 Nephi 19:1
 1 Nevertheless, the dimness shall not be such as was in her
vexation, when at first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun,
and the land of Naphtali, and afterwards did more grievously
afflict by the way of the Red Sea beyond Jordan in Galilee of the
nations.

2 Nephi 19:2
 2 The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light;
they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them
hath the light shined.

2 Nephi 19:3
 3 Thou hast multiplied the nation, and increased the joy--they
joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men
rejoice when they divide the spoil.

2 Nephi 19:4
 4 For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of
his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor.

2 Nephi 19:5
 5 For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, and
garments rolled in blood; but this shall be with burning and fuel
of fire.

2 Nephi 19:6
 6 For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given; and the
government shall be upon his shoulder; and his name shall be
called, Wonderful, Counselor, The Mighty God, The Everlasting
Father, The Prince of Peace.

2 Nephi 19:7
 7 Of the increase of government and peace there is no end, upon
the throne of David, and upon his kingdom to order it, and to
establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even
forever. The zeal of the Lord of Hosts will perform this.

2 Nephi 19:8
 8 The Lord sent his word unto Jacob and it hath lighted upon
Israel.

2 Nephi 19:9
 9 And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the
inhabitants of Samaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of
heart:

2 Nephi 19:10
 10 The bricks are fallen down, but we will build with hewn
stones; the sycamores are cut down, but we will change them into
cedars.

2 Nephi 19:11
 11 Therefore the Lord shall set up the adversaries of Rezin
against him, and join his enemies together;

2 Nephi 19:12
 12 The Syrians before and the Philistines behind; and they shall
devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger is not
turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

2 Nephi 19:13
 13 For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them,
neither do they seek the Lord of Hosts.

2 Nephi 19:14
 14 Therefore will the Lord cut off from Israel head and tail,
branch and rush in one day.

2 Nephi 19:15
 15 The ancient, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth
lies, he is the tail.

2 Nephi 19:16
 16 For the leaders of this people cause them to err; and they
that are led of them are destroyed.

2 Nephi 19:17
 17 Therefore the Lord shall have no joy in their young men,
neither shall have mercy on their fatherless and widows; for
every one of them is a hypocrite and an evildoer, and every mouth
speaketh folly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but
his hand is stretched out still.

2 Nephi 19:18
 18 For wickedness burneth as the fire; it shall devour the
briers and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the
forests, and they shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.

2 Nephi 19:19
 19 Through the wrath of the Lord of Hosts is the land darkened,
and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire; no man shall
spare his brother.

2 Nephi 19:20
 20 And he shall snatch on the right hand and be hungry; and he
shall eat on the left hand and they shall not be satisfied; they
shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm--

2 Nephi 19:21
 21 Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh; they together shall
be against Judah. For all this his anger is not turned away, but
his hand is stretched out still.

