2 Nephi 10
Chapter 10

2 Nephi 10:1
 1 And now I, Jacob, speak unto you again, my beloved brethren,
concerning this righteous branch of which I have spoken.

2 Nephi 10:2
 2 For behold, the promises which we have obtained are promises
unto us according to the flesh; wherefore, as it has been shown
unto me that many of our children shall perish in the flesh
because of unbelief, nevertheless, God will be merciful unto
many; and our children shall be restored, that they may come to
that which will give them the true knowledge of their Redeemer.

2 Nephi 10:3
 3 Wherefore, as I said unto you, it must needs be expedient that
Christ--for in the last night the angel spake unto me that this
should be his name--should come among the Jews, among those who
are the more wicked part of the world; and they shall crucify
him--for thus it behooveth our God, and there is none other
nation on earth that would crucify their God.

2 Nephi 10:4
 4 For should the mighty miracles be wrought among other nations
they would repent, and know that he be their God.

2 Nephi 10:5
 5 But because of priestcrafts and iniquities, they at Jerusalem
will stiffen their necks against him, that he be crucified.

2 Nephi 10:6
 6 Wherefore, because of their iniquities, destructions, famines,
pestilences, and bloodshed shall come upon them; and they who
shall not be destroyed shall be scattered among all nations.

2 Nephi 10:7
 7 But behold, thus saith the Lord God: When the day cometh that
they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I
covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in the
flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance.

2 Nephi 10:8
 8 And it shall come to pass that they shall be gathered in from
their long dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the
four parts of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles shall be
great in the eyes of me, saith God, in carrying them forth to the
lands of their inheritance.

2 Nephi 10:9
 9 Yea, the kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto
them, and their queens shall become nursing mothers; wherefore,
the promises of the Lord are great unto the Gentiles, for he hath
spoken it, and who can dispute?

2 Nephi 10:10
 10 But behold, this land, said God, shall be a land of thine
inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land.

2 Nephi 10:11
 11 And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles,
and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up
unto the Gentiles.

2 Nephi 10:12
 12 And I will fortify this land against all other nations.

2 Nephi 10:13
 13 And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God.

2 Nephi 10:14
 14 For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I,
the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a
light unto them forever, that hear my words.

2 Nephi 10:15
 15 Wherefore, for this cause, that my covenants may be fulfilled
which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto
them while they are in the flesh, I must needs destroy the secret
works of darkness, and of murders, and of abominations.

2 Nephi 10:16
 16 Wherefore, he that fighteth against Zion, both Jew and
Gentile, both bond and free, both male and female, shall perish;
for they are they who are the whore of all the earth; for they
who are not for me are against me, saith our God.

2 Nephi 10:17
 17 For I will fulfil my promises which I have made unto the
children of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the
flesh--

2 Nephi 10:18
 18 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, thus saith our God: I will
afflict thy seed by the hand of the Gentiles; nevertheless, I
will soften the hearts of the Gentiles, that they shall be like
unto a father to them; wherefore, the Gentiles shall be blessed
and numbered among the house of Israel.

2 Nephi 10:19
 19 Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed, and
them who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the land
of their inheritance; for it is a choice land, saith God unto me,
above all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell
thereon that they shall worship me, saith God.

2 Nephi 10:20
 20 And now, my beloved brethren, seeing that our merciful God
has given us so great knowledge concerning these things, let us
remember him, and lay aside our sins, and not hang down our
heads, for we are not cast off; nevertheless, we have been driven
out of the land of our inheritance; but we have been led to a
better land, for the Lord has made the sea our path, and we are
upon an isle of the sea.

2 Nephi 10:21
 21 But great are the promises of the Lord unto them who are upon
the isles of the sea; wherefore as it says isles, there must
needs be more than this, and they are inhabited also by our
brethren.

2 Nephi 10:22
 22 For behold, the Lord God has led away from time to time from
the house of Israel, according to his will and pleasure. And now
behold, the Lord remembereth all them who have been broken off,
wherefore he remembereth us also.

2 Nephi 10:23
 23 Therefore, cheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are
free to act for yourselves--to choose the way of everlasting
death or the way of eternal life.

2 Nephi 10:24
 24 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, reconcile yourselves to the
will of God, and not to the will of the devil and the flesh; and
remember, after ye are reconciled unto God, that it is only in
and through the grace of God that ye are saved.

2 Nephi 10:25
 25 Wherefore, may God raise you from death by the power of the
resurrection, and also from everlasting death by the power of the
atonement, that ye may be received into the eternal kingdom of
God, that ye may praise him through grace divine. Amen.

