2 Nephi 17
Chapter 17

2 Nephi 17:1
 1 And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the
son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin, king of Syria, and
Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward
Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it.

2 Nephi 17:2
 2 And it was told the house of David, saying: Syria is
confederate with Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart
of his people, as the trees of the wood are moved with the wind.

2 Nephi 17:3
 3 Then said the Lord unto Isaiah: Go forth now to meet Ahaz,
thou and Shearjashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the
upper pool in the highway of the fuller's field;

2 Nephi 17:4
 4 And say unto him: Take heed, and be quiet; fear not, neither
be faint-hearted for the two tails of these smoking firebrands,
for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria, and of the son of
Remaliah.

2 Nephi 17:5
 5 Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have taken
evil counsel against thee, saying:

2 Nephi 17:6
 6 Let us go up against Judah and vex it, and let us make a
breach therein for us, and set a king in the midst of it, yea,
the son of Tabeal.

2 Nephi 17:7
 7 Thus saith the Lord God: It shall not stand, neither shall it
come to pass.

2 Nephi 17:8
 8 For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus,
Rezin; and within three score and five years shall Ephraim be
broken that it be not a people.

2 Nephi 17:9
 9 And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is
Remaliah's son. If ye will not believe surely ye shall not be
established.

2 Nephi 17:10
 10 Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying:

2 Nephi 17:11
 11 Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God; ask it either in the
depths, or in the heights above.

2 Nephi 17:12
 12 But Ahaz said: I will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord.

2 Nephi 17:13
 13 And he said: Hear ye now, O house of David; is it a small
thing for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?

2 Nephi 17:14
 14 Therefore, the Lord himself shall give you a sign--Behold, a
virgin shall conceive, and shall bear a son, and shall call his
name Immanuel.

2 Nephi 17:15
 15 Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the
evil and to choose the good.

2 Nephi 17:16
 16 For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose
the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both
her kings.

2 Nephi 17:17
 17 The Lord shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon
thy father's house, days that have not come from the day that
Ephraim departed from Judah, the king of Assyria.

2 Nephi 17:18
 18 And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall
hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of Egypt, and for
the bee that is in the land of Assyria.

2 Nephi 17:19
 19 And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the
desolate valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all
thorns, and upon all bushes.

2 Nephi 17:20
 20 In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is
hired, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the
head, and the hair of the feet; and it shall also consume the
beard.

2 Nephi 17:21
 21 And it shall come to pass in that day, a man shall nourish a
young cow and two sheep;

2 Nephi 17:22
 22 And it shall come to pass, for the abundance of milk they
shall give he shall eat butter; for butter and honey shall every
one eat that is left in the land.

2 Nephi 17:23
 23 And it shall come to pass in that day, every place shall be,
where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings,
which shall be for briers and thorns.

2 Nephi 17:24
 24 With arrows and with bows shall men come thither, because all
the land shall become briers and thorns.

2 Nephi 17:25
 25 And all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there
shall not come thither the fear of briers and thorns; but it
shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and the treading of
lesser cattle.

