2 Nephi 11
Chapter 11

2 Nephi 11:1
 1 And now, Jacob spake many more things to my people at that
time; nevertheless only these things have I caused to be written,
for the things which I have written sufficeth me.

2 Nephi 11:2
 2 And now I, Nephi, write more of the words of Isaiah, for my
soul delighteth in his words. For I will liken his words unto my
people, and I will send them forth unto all my children, for he
verily saw my Redeemer, even as I have seen him.

2 Nephi 11:3
 3 And my brother, Jacob, also has seen him as I have seen him;
wherefore, I will send their words forth unto my children to
prove unto them that my words are true. Wherefore, by the words
of three, God hath said, I will establish my word. Nevertheless,
God sendeth more witnesses, and he proveth all his words.

2 Nephi 11:4
 4 Behold, my soul delighteth in proving unto my people the truth
of the coming of Christ; for, for this end hath the law of Moses
been given; and all things which have been given of God from the
beginning of the world, unto man, are the typifying of him.

2 Nephi 11:5
 5 And also my soul delighteth in the covenants of the Lord which
he hath made to our fathers; yea, my soul delighteth in his
grace, and in his justice, and power, and mercy in the great and
eternal plan of deliverance from death.

2 Nephi 11:6
 6 And my soul delighteth in proving unto my people that save
Christ should come all men must perish.

2 Nephi 11:7
 7 For if there be no Christ there be no God; and if there be no
God we are not, for there could have been no creation. But there
is a God, and he is Christ, and he cometh in the fulness of his
own time.

2 Nephi 11:8
 8 And now I write some of the words of Isaiah, that whoso of my
people shall see these words may lift up their hearts and rejoice
for all men. Now these are the words, and ye may liken them unto
you and unto all men.

