Jacob 3
Chapter 3

Jacob 3:1
 1 But behold, I, Jacob, would speak unto you that are pure in
heart. Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray unto him
with exceeding faith, and he will console you in your
afflictions, and he will plead your cause, and send down justice
upon those who seek your destruction.

Jacob 3:2
 2 O all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and
receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon his love; for ye
may, if your minds are firm, forever.

Jacob 3:3
 3 But, wo, wo, unto you that are not pure in heart, that are
filthy this day before God; for except ye repent the land is
cursed for your sakes; and the Lamanites, which are not filthy
like unto you, nevertheless they are cursed with a sore cursing,
shall scourge you even unto destruction.

Jacob 3:4
 4 And the time speedily cometh, that except ye repent they shall
possess the land of your inheritance, and the Lord God will lead
away the righteous out from among you.

Jacob 3:5
 5 Behold, the Lamanites your brethren, whom ye hate because of
their filthiness and the cursing which hath come upon their
skins, are more righteous than you; for they have not forgotten
the commandment of the Lord, which was given unto our
father--that they should have save it were one wife, and
concubines they should have none, and there should not be
whoredoms committed among them.

Jacob 3:6
 6 And now, this commandment they observe to keep; wherefore,
because of this observance, in keeping this commandment, the Lord
God will not destroy them, but will be merciful unto them; and
one day they shall become a blessed people.

Jacob 3:7
 7 Behold, their husbands love their wives, and their wives love
their husbands; and their husbands and their wives love their
children; and their unbelief and their hatred towards you is
because of the iniquity of their fathers; wherefore, how much
better are you than they, in the sight of your great Creator?

Jacob 3:8
 8 O my brethren, I fear that unless ye shall repent of your sins
that their skins will be whiter than yours, when ye shall be
brought with them before the throne of God.

Jacob 3:9
 9 Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, which is the word of
God, that ye revile no more against them because of the darkness
of their skins; neither shall ye revile against them because of
their filthiness; but ye shall remember your own filthiness, and
remember that their filthiness came because of their fathers.

Jacob 3:10
 10 Wherefore, ye shall remember your children, how that ye have
grieved their hearts because of the example that ye have set
before them; and also, remember that ye may, because of your
filthiness, bring your children unto destruction, and their sins
be heaped upon your heads at the last day.

Jacob 3:11
 11 O my brethren, hearken unto my words; arouse the faculties of
your souls; shake yourselves that ye may awake from the slumber
of death; and loose yourselves from the pains of hell that ye may
not become angels to the devil, to be cast into that lake of fire
and brimstone which is the second death.

Jacob 3:12
 12 And now I, Jacob, spake many more things unto the people of
Nephi, warning them against fornication and lasciviousness, and
every kind of sin, telling them the awful consequences of them.

Jacob 3:13
 13 And a hundredth part of the proceedings of this people, which
now began to be numerous, cannot be written upon these plates;
but many of their proceedings are written upon the larger plates,
and their wars, and their contentions, and the reigns of their
kings.

Jacob 3:14
 14 These plates are called the plates of Jacob, and they were
made by the hand of Nephi. And I make an end of speaking these
words.

