Mosiah 5
Chapter 5

Mosiah 5:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had thus
spoken to his people, he sent among them, desiring to know of his
people if they believed the words which he had spoken unto them.

Mosiah 5:2
 2 And they all cried with one voice, saying: Yea, we believe all
the words which thou hast spoken unto us; and also, we know of
their surety and truth, because of the Spirit of the Lord
Omnipotent, which has wrought a mighty change in us, or in our
hearts, that we have no more disposition to do evil, but to do
good continually.

Mosiah 5:3
 3 And we, ourselves, also, through the infinite goodness of God,
and the manifestations of his Spirit, have great views of that
which is to come; and were it expedient, we could prophesy of all
things.

Mosiah 5:4
 4 And it is the faith which we have had on the things which our
king has spoken unto us that has brought us to this great
knowledge, whereby we do rejoice with such exceedingly great joy.

Mosiah 5:5
 5 And we are willing to enter into a covenant with our God to do
his will, and to be obedient to his commandments in all things
that he shall command us, all the remainder of our days, that we
may not bring upon ourselves a never-ending torment, as has been
spoken by the angel, that we may not drink out of the cup of the
wrath of God.

Mosiah 5:6
 6 And now, these are the words which king Benjamin desired of
them; and therefore he said unto them: Ye have spoken the words
that I desired; and the covenant which ye have made is a
righteous covenant.

Mosiah 5:7
 7 And now, because of the covenant which ye have made ye shall
be called the children of Christ, his sons, and his daughters;
for behold, this day he hath spiritually begotten you; for ye say
that your hearts are changed through faith on his name;
therefore, ye are born of him and have become his sons and his
daughters.

Mosiah 5:8
 8 And under this head ye are made free, and there is no other
head whereby ye can be made free. There is no other name given
whereby salvation cometh; therefore, I would that ye should take
upon you the name of Christ, all you that have entered into the
covenant with God that ye should be obedient unto the end of your
lives.

Mosiah 5:9
 9 And it shall come to pass that whosoever doeth this shall be
found at the right hand of God, for he shall know the name by
which he is called; for he shall be called by the name of Christ.

Mosiah 5:10
 10 And now it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall not take
upon him the name of Christ must be called by some other name;
therefore, he findeth himself on the left hand of God.

Mosiah 5:11
 11 And I would that ye should remember also, that this is the
name that I said I should give unto you that never should be
blotted out, except it be through transgression; therefore, take
heed that ye do not transgress, that the name be not blotted out
of your hearts.

Mosiah 5:12
 12 I say unto you, I would that ye should remember to retain the
name written always in your hearts, that ye are not found on the
left hand of God, but that ye hear and know the voice by which ye
shall be called, and also, the name by which he shall call you.

Mosiah 5:13
 13 For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and
who is a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and
intents of his heart?

Mosiah 5:14
 14 And again, doth a man take an ass which belongeth to his
neighbor, and keep him? I say unto you, Nay; he will not even
suffer that he shall feed among his flocks, but will drive him
away, and cast him out. I say unto you, that even so shall it be
among you if ye know not the name by which ye are called.

Mosiah 5:15
 15 Therefore, I would that ye should be steadfast and immovable,
always abounding in good works, that Christ, the Lord God
Omnipotent, may seal you his, that you may be brought to heaven,
that ye may have everlasting salvation and eternal life, through
the wisdom, and power, and justice, and mercy of him who created
all things, in heaven and in earth, who is God above all. Amen.

