Mosiah 17
Chapter 17

Mosiah 17:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Abinadi had finished these
sayings, that the king commanded that the priests should take him
and cause that he should be put to death.

Mosiah 17:2
 2 But there was one among them whose name was Alma, he also
being a descendant of Nephi. And he was a young man, and he
believed the words which Abinadi had spoken, for he knew
concerning the iniquity which Abinadi has testified against them;
therefore he began to plead with the king that he would not be
angry with Abinadi, but suffer that he might depart in peace.

Mosiah 17:3
 3 But the king was more wroth, and caused that Alma should be
cast out from among them, and sent his servants after him that
they might slay him.

Mosiah 17:4
 4 But he fled from before them and hid himself that they found
him not. And he being concealed for many days did write all the
words which Abinadi had spoken.

Mosiah 17:5
 5 And it came to pass that the king caused that his guards
should surround Abinadi and take him; and they bound him and cast
him into prison.

Mosiah 17:6
 6 And after three days, having counseled with his priests, he
caused that he should again be brought before him.

Mosiah 17:7
 7 And he said unto him: Abinadi, we have found an accusation
against thee, and thou art worthy of death.

Mosiah 17:8
 8 For thou hast said that God himself should come down among the
children of men; and now, for this cause thou shalt be put to
death unless thou wilt recall all the words which thou hast
spoken evil concerning me and my people.

Mosiah 17:9
 9 Now Abinadi said unto him: I say unto you, I will not recall
the words which I have spoken unto you concerning this people,
for they are true; and that ye may know of their surety I have
suffered myself that I have fallen into your hands.

Mosiah 17:10
 10 Yea, and I will suffer even until death, and I will not
recall my words, and they shall stand as a testimony against you.
And if ye slay me ye will shed innocent blood, and this shall
also stand as a testimony against you at the last day.

Mosiah 17:11
 11 And now king Noah was about to release him, for he feared his
word; for he feared that the judgments of God would come upon
him.

Mosiah 17:12
 12 But the priests lifted up their voices against him, and began
to accuse him, saying: He has reviled the king. Therefore the
king was stirred up in anger against him, and he delivered him up
that he might be slain.

Mosiah 17:13
 13 And it came to pass that they took him and bound him, and
scourged his skin with faggots, yea, even unto death.

Mosiah 17:14
 14 And now when the flames began to scorch him, he cried unto
them, saying:

Mosiah 17:15
 15 Behold, even as ye have done unto me, so shall it come to
pass that thy seed shall cause that many shall suffer the pains
that I do suffer, even the pains of death by fire; and this
because they believe in the salvation of the Lord their God.

Mosiah 17:16
 16 And it will come to pass that ye shall be afflicted with all
manner of diseases because of your iniquities.

Mosiah 17:17
 17 Yea, and ye shall be smitten on every hand, and shall be
driven and scattered to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven
by wild and ferocious beasts.

Mosiah 17:18
 18 And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye shall be taken by
the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer,
the pains of death by fire.

Mosiah 17:19
 19 Thus God executeth vengeance upon those that destroy his
people. O God, receive my soul.

Mosiah 17:20
 20 And now, when Abinadi had said these words, he fell, having
suffered death by fire; yea, having been put to death because he
would not deny the commandments of God, having sealed the truth
of his words by his death.

