Mosiah 10
Chapter 10

Mosiah 10:1
 1 And it came to pass that we again began to establish the
kingdom and we again began to possess the land in peace. And I
caused that there should be weapons of war made of every kind,
that thereby I might have weapons for my people against the time
the Lamanites should come up again to war against my people.

Mosiah 10:2
 2 And I set guards round about the land, that the Lamanites
might not come upon us again unawares and destroy us; and thus I
did guard my people and my flocks, and keep them from falling
into the hands of our enemies.

Mosiah 10:3
 3 And it came to pass that we did inherit the land of our
fathers for many years, yea, for the space of twenty and two
years.

Mosiah 10:4
 4 And I did cause that the men should till the ground, and raise
all manner of grain and all manner of fruit of every kind.

Mosiah 10:5
 5 And I did cause that the women should spin, and toil, and
work, and work all manner of fine linen, yea, and cloth of every
kind, that we might clothe our nakedness; and thus we did prosper
in the land--thus we did have continual peace in the land for the
space of twenty and two years.

Mosiah 10:6
 6 And it came to pass that king Laman died, and his son began to
reign in his stead. And he began to stir his people up in
rebellion against my people; therefore they began to prepare for
war, and to come up to battle against my people.

Mosiah 10:7
 7 But I had sent my spies out round about the land of Shemlon,
that I might discover their preparations, that I might guard
against them, that they might not come upon my people and destroy
them.

Mosiah 10:8
 8 And it came to pass that they came up upon the north of the
land of Shilom, with their numerous hosts, men armed with bows,
and with arrows, and with swords, and with cimeters, and with
stones, and with slings; and they had their heads shaved that
they were naked; and they were girded with a leathern girdle
about their loins.

Mosiah 10:9
 9 And it came to pass that I caused that the women and children
of my people should be hid in the wilderness; and I also caused
that all my old men that could bear arms, and also all my young
men that were able to bear arms, should gather themselves
together to go to battle against the Lamanites; and I did place
them in their ranks, every man according to his age.

Mosiah 10:10
 10 And it came to pass that we did go up to battle against the
Lamanites; and I, even I, in my old age, did go up to battle
against the Lamanites. And it came to pass that we did go up in
the strength of the Lord to battle.

Mosiah 10:11
 11 Now, the Lamanites knew nothing concerning the Lord, nor the
strength of the Lord, therefore they depended upon their own
strength. Yet they were a strong people, as to the strength of
men.

Mosiah 10:12
 12 They were a wild, and ferocious, and a blood-thirsty people,
believing in the tradition of their fathers, which is
this--Believing that they were driven out of the land of
Jerusalem because of the iniquities of their fathers, and that
they were wronged in the wilderness by their brethren, and they
were also wronged while crossing the sea;

Mosiah 10:13
 13 And again, that they were wronged while in the land of their
first inheritance, after they had crossed the sea, and all this
because that Nephi was more faithful in keeping the commandments
of the Lord--therefore he was favored of the Lord, for the Lord
heard his prayers and answered them, and he took the lead of
their journey in the wilderness.

Mosiah 10:14
 14 And his brethren were wroth with him because they understood
not the dealings of the Lord; they were also wroth with him upon
the waters because they hardened their hearts against the Lord.

Mosiah 10:15
 15 And again, they were wroth with him when they had arrived in
the promised land, because they said that he had taken the ruling
of the people out of their hands; and they sought to kill him.

Mosiah 10:16
 16 And again, they were wroth with him because he departed into
the wilderness as the Lord had commanded him, and took the
records which were engraven on the plates of brass, for they said
that he robbed them.

Mosiah 10:17
 17 And thus they have taught their children that they should
hate them, and that they should murder them, and that they should
rob and plunder them, and do all they could to destroy them;
therefore they have an eternal hatred towards the children of
Nephi.

Mosiah 10:18
 18 For this very cause has king Laman, by his cunning, and lying
craftiness, and his fair promises, deceived me, that I have
brought this my people up into this land, that they may destroy
them; yea, and we have suffered these many years in the land.

Mosiah 10:19
 19 And now I, Zeniff, after having told all these things unto my
people concerning the Lamanites, I did stimulate them to go to
battle with their might, putting their trust in the Lord;
therefore, we did contend with them, face to face.

Mosiah 10:20
 20 And it came to pass that we did drive them again out of our
land; and we slew them with a great slaughter, even so many that
we did not number them.

Mosiah 10:21
 21 And it came to pass that we returned again to our own land,
and my people again began to tend their flocks, and to till their
ground.

Mosiah 10:22
 22 And now I, being old, did confer the kingdom upon one of my
sons; therefore, I say no more. And may the Lord bless my
people. Amen.

