Mosiah 9
Chapter 9

Mosiah 9:1
 1 I, Zeniff, having been taught in all the language of the
Nephites, and having had a knowledge of the land of Nephi, or of
the land of our fathers' first inheritance, and having been sent
as a spy among the Lamanites that I might spy out their forces,
that our army might come upon them and destroy them--but when I
saw that which was good among them I was desirous that they
should not be destroyed.

Mosiah 9:2
 2 Therefore, I contended with my brethren in the wilderness for
I would that our ruler should make a treaty with them; but he
being an austere and a bloodthirsty man commanded that I should
be slain; but I was rescued by the shedding of much blood; for
father fought against father, and brother against brother, until
the greater number of our army was destroyed in the wilderness;
and we returned, those of us that were spared, to the land of
Zarahemla, to relate that tale to their wives and their children.

Mosiah 9:3
 3 And yet, I being over-zealous to inherit the land of our
fathers, collected as many as were desirous to go up to possess
the land, and started again on our journey into the wilderness to
go up to the land; but we were smitten with famine and sore
afflictions; for we were slow to remember the Lord our God.

Mosiah 9:4
 4 Nevertheless, after many days' wandering in the wilderness we
pitched our tents in the place where our brethren were slain,
which was near to the land of our fathers.

Mosiah 9:5
 5 And it came to pass that I went again with four of my men into
the city, in unto the king, that I might know of the disposition
of the king, and that I might know if I might go in with my
people and possess the land in peace.

Mosiah 9:6
 6 And I went in unto the king, and he covenanted with me that I
might possess the land of Lehi-Nephi, and the land of Shilom.

Mosiah 9:7
 7 And he also commanded that his people should depart out of the
land, and I and my people went into the land that we might
possess it.

Mosiah 9:8
 8 And we began to build buildings, and to repair the walls of
the city, yea, even the walls of the city of Lehi-Nephi, and the
city of Shilom.

Mosiah 9:9
 9 And we began to till the ground, yea, even with all manner of
seeds, with seeds of corn, and of wheat, and of barley, and with
neas, and with sheum, and with seeds of all manner of fruits; and
we did begin to multiply and prosper in the land.

Mosiah 9:10
 10 Now it was the cunning and the craftiness of king Laman, to
bring my people into bondage, that he yielded up the land that we
might possess it.

Mosiah 9:11
 11 Therefore it came to pass, that after we had dwelt in the
land for the space of twelve years that king Laman began to grow
uneasy, lest by any means my people should wax strong in the
land, and that they could not overpower them and bring them into
bondage.

Mosiah 9:12
 12 Now they were a lazy and an idolatrous people; therefore they
were desirous to bring us into bondage, that they might glut
themselves with the labors of our hands; yea, that they might
feast themselves upon the flocks of our fields.

Mosiah 9:13
 13 Therefore it came to pass that king Laman began to stir up
his people that they should contend with my people; therefore
there began to be wars and contentions in the land.

Mosiah 9:14
 14 For, in the thirteenth year of my reign in the land of Nephi,
away on the south of the land of Shilom, when my people were
watering and feeding their flocks, and tilling their lands, a
numerous host of Lamanites came upon them and began to slay them,
and to take off their flocks, and the corn of their fields.

Mosiah 9:15
 15 Yea, and it came to pass that they fled, all that were not
overtaken, even into the city of Nephi, and did call upon me for
protection.

Mosiah 9:16
 16 And it came to pass that I did arm them with bows, and with
arrows, with swords, and with cimeters, and with clubs, and with
slings, and with all manner of weapons which we could invent, and
I and my people did go forth against the Lamanites to battle.

Mosiah 9:17
 17 Yea, in the strength of the Lord did we go forth to battle
against the Lamanites; for I and my people did cry mightily to
the Lord that he would deliver us out of the hands of our
enemies, for we were awakened to a remembrance of the deliverance
of our fathers.

Mosiah 9:18
 18 And God did hear our cries and did answer our prayers; and we
did go forth in his might; yea, we did go forth against the
Lamanites, and in one day and a night we did slay three thousand
and forty-three; we did slay them even until we had driven them
out of our land.

Mosiah 9:19
 19 And I, myself, with mine own hands, did help to bury their
dead. And behold, to our great sorrow and lamentation, two
hundred and seventy-nine of our brethren were slain.

