Alma 25
Chapter 25

Alma 25:1
 1 And behold, now it came to pass that those Lamanites were more
angry because they had slain their brethren; therefore they swore
vengeance upon the Nephites; and they did no more attempt to slay
the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi at that time.

Alma 25:2
 2 But they took their armies and went over into the borders of
the land of Zarahemla, and fell upon the people who were in the
land of Ammonihah, and destroyed them.

Alma 25:3
 3 And after that, they had many battles with the Nephites, in
the which they were driven and slain.

Alma 25:4
 4 And among the Lamanites who were slain were almost all the
seed of Amulon and his brethren, who were the priests of Noah,
and they were slain by the hands of the Nephites;

Alma 25:5
 5 And the remainder, having fled into the east wilderness, and
having usurped the power and authority over the Lamanites, caused
that many of the Lamanites should perish by fire because of their
belief--

Alma 25:6
 6 For many of them, after having suffered much loss and so many
afflictions, began to be stirred up in remembrance of the words
which Aaron and his brethren had preached to them in their land;
therefore they began to disbelieve the traditions of their
fathers, and to believe in the Lord, and that he gave great power
unto the Nephites; and thus there were many of them converted in
the wilderness.

Alma 25:7
 7 And it came to pass that those rulers who were the remnant of
the children of Amulon caused that they should be put to death,
yea, all those that believed in these things.

Alma 25:8
 8 Now this martyrdom caused that many of their brethren should
be stirred up to anger; and there began to be contention in the
wilderness; and the Lamanites began to hunt the seed of Amulon
and his brethren and began to slay them; and they fled into the
east wilderness.

Alma 25:9
 9 And behold they are hunted at this day by the Lamanites. Thus
the words of Abinadi were brought to pass, which he said
concerning the seed of the priests who caused that he should
suffer death by fire.

Alma 25:10
 10 For he said unto them: What ye shall do unto me shall be a
type of things to come.

Alma 25:11
 11 And now Abinadi was the first that suffered death by fire
because of his belief in God; now this is what he meant, that
many should suffer death by fire, according as he had suffered.

Alma 25:12
 12 And he said unto the priests of Noah that their seed should
cause many to be put to death, in the like manner as he was, and
that they should be scattered abroad and slain, even as a sheep
having no shepherd is driven and slain by wild beasts; and now
behold, these words were verified, for they were driven by the
Lamanites, and they were hunted, and they were smitten.

Alma 25:13
 13 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that they
could not overpower the Nephites they returned again to their own
land; and many of them came over to dwell in the land of Ishmael
and the land of Nephi, and did join themselves to the people of
God, who were the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 25:14
 14 And they did also bury their weapons of war, according as
their brethren had, and they began to be a righteous people; and
they did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe to keep
his commandments and his statutes.

Alma 25:15
 15 Yea, and they did keep the law of Moses; for it was expedient
that they should keep the law of Moses as yet, for it was not all
fulfilled. But notwithstanding the law of Moses, they did look
forward to the coming of Christ, considering that the law of
Moses was a type of his coming, and believing that they must keep
those outward performances until the time that he should be
revealed unto them.

Alma 25:16
 16 Now they did not suppose that salvation came by the law of
Moses; but the law of Moses did serve to strengthen their faith
in Christ; and thus they did retain a hope through faith, unto
eternal salvation, relying upon the spirit of prophecy, which
spake of those things to come.

Alma 25:17
 17 And now behold, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni, and
their brethren did rejoice exceedingly, for the success which
they had had among the Lamanites, seeing that the Lord had
granted unto them according to their prayers, and that he had
also verified his word unto them in every particular.

