Alma 15
Chapter 15

Alma 15:1
 1 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek were commanded to
depart out of that city; and they departed, and came out even
into the land of Sidom; and behold, there they found all the
people who had departed out of the land of Ammonihah, who had
been cast out and stoned, because they believed in the words of
Alma.

Alma 15:2
 2 And they related unto them all that had happened unto their
wives and children, and also concerning themselves, and of their
power of deliverance.

Alma 15:3
 3 And also Zeezrom lay sick at Sidom, with a burning fever,
which was caused by the great tribulations of his mind on account
of his wickedness, for he supposed that Alma and Amulek were no
more; and he supposed that they had been slain because of his
iniquity. And this great sin, and his many other sins, did
harrow up his mind until it did become exceedingly sore, having
no deliverance; therefore he began to be scorched with a burning
heat.

Alma 15:4
 4 Now, when he heard that Alma and Amulek were in the land of
Sidom, his heart began to take courage; and he sent a message
immediately unto them, desiring them to come unto him.

Alma 15:5
 5 And it came to pass that they went immediately, obeying the
message which he had sent unto them; and they went in unto the
house unto Zeezrom; and they found him upon his bed, sick, being
very low with a burning fever; and his mind also was exceedingly
sore because of his iniquities; and when he saw them he stretched
forth his hand, and besought them that they would heal him.

Alma 15:6
 6 And it came to pass that Alma said unto him, taking him by the
hand: Believest thou in the power of Christ unto salvation?

Alma 15:7
 7 And he answered and said: Yea, I believe all the words that
thou hast taught.

Alma 15:8
 8 And Alma said: If thou believest in the redemption of Christ
thou canst be healed.

Alma 15:9
 9 And he said: Yea, I believe according to thy words.

Alma 15:10
 10 And then Alma cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord our God,
have mercy on this man, and heal him according to his faith which
is in Christ.

Alma 15:11
 11 And when Alma had said these words, Zeezrom leaped upon his
feet, and began to walk; and this was done to the great
astonishment of all the people; and the knowledge of this went
forth throughout all the land of Sidom.

Alma 15:12
 12 And Alma baptized Zeezrom unto the Lord; and he began from
that time forth to preach unto the people.

Alma 15:13
 13 And Alma established a church in the land of Sidom, and
consecrated priests and teachers in the land, to baptize unto the
Lord whosoever were desirous to be baptized.

Alma 15:14
 14 And it came to pass that they were many; for they did flock
in from all the region round about Sidom, and were baptized.

Alma 15:15
 15 But as to the people that were in the land of Ammonihah, they
yet remained a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people; and they
repented not of their sins, ascribing all the power of Alma and
Amulek to the devil; for they were of the profession of Nehor,
and did not believe in the repentance of their sins.

Alma 15:16
 16 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek, Amulek having
forsaken all his gold, and silver, and his precious things, which
were in the land of Ammonihah, for the word of God, he being
rejected by those who were once his friends and also by his
father and his kindred;

Alma 15:17
 17 Therefore, after Alma having established the church at Sidom,
seeing a great check, yea, seeing that the people were checked as
to the pride of their hearts, and began to humble themselves
before God, and began to assemble themselves together at their
sanctuaries to worship God before the altar, watching and praying
continually, that they might be delivered from Satan, and from
death, and from destruction--

Alma 15:18
 18 Now as I said, Alma having seen all these things, therefore
he took Amulek and came over to the land of Zarahemla, and took
him to his own house, and did administer unto him in his
tribulations, and strengthened him in the Lord.

Alma 15:19
 19 And thus ended the tenth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.

