Alma 35
Chapter 35

Alma 35:1
 1 Now it came to pass that after Amulek had made an end of these
words, they withdrew themselves from the multitude and came over
into the land of Jershon.

Alma 35:2
 2 Yea, and the rest of the brethren, after they had preached the
word unto the Zoramites, also came over into the land of Jershon.

Alma 35:3
 3 And it came to pass that after the more popular part of the
Zoramites had consulted together concerning the words which had
been preached unto them, they were angry because of the word, for
it did destroy their craft; therefore they would not hearken unto
the words.

Alma 35:4
 4 And they sent and gathered together throughout all the land
all the people, and consulted with them concerning the words
which had been spoken.

Alma 35:5
 5 Now their rulers and their priests and their teachers did not
let the people know concerning their desires; therefore they
found out privily the minds of all the people.

Alma 35:6
 6 And it came to pass that after they had found out the minds of
all the people, those who were in favor of the words which had
been spoken by Alma and his brethren were cast out of the land;
and they were many; and they came over also into the land of
Jershon.

Alma 35:7
 7 And it came to pass that Alma and his brethren did minister
unto them.

Alma 35:8
 8 Now the people of the Zoramites were angry with the people of
Ammon who were in Jershon, and the chief ruler of the Zoramites,
being a very wicked man, sent over unto the people of Ammon
desiring them that they should cast out of their land all those
who came over from them into their land.

Alma 35:9
 9 And he breathed out many threatenings against them. And now
the people of Ammon did not fear their words; therefore they did
not cast them out, but they did receive all the poor of the
Zoramites that came over unto them; and they did nourish them,
and did clothe them, and did give unto them lands for their
inheritance; and they did administer unto them according to their
wants.

Alma 35:10
 10 Now this did stir up the Zoramites to anger against the
people of Ammon, and they began to mix with the Lamanites and to
stir them up also to anger against them.

Alma 35:11
 11 And thus the Zoramites and the Lamanites began to make
preparations for war against the people of Ammon, and also
against the Nephites.

Alma 35:12
 12 And thus ended the seventeenth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 35:13
 13 And the people of Ammon departed out of the land of Jershon,
and came over into the land of Melek, and gave place in the land
of Jershon for the armies of the Nephites, that they might
contend with the armies of the Lamanites and the armies of the
Zoramites; and thus commenced a war betwixt the Lamanites and the
Nephites, in the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges; and
an account shall be given of their wars hereafter.

Alma 35:14
 14 And Alma, and Ammon, and their brethren, and also the two
sons of Alma returned to the land of Zarahemla, after having been
instruments in the hands of God of bringing many of the Zoramites
to repentance; and as many as were brought to repentance were
driven out of their land; but they have lands for their
inheritance in the land of Jershon, and they have taken up arms
to defend themselves, and their wives, and children, and their
lands.

Alma 35:15
 15 Now Alma, being grieved for the iniquity of his people, yea
for the wars, and the bloodsheds, and the contentions which were
among them; and having been to declare the word, or sent to
declare the word, among all the people in every city; and seeing
that the hearts of the people began to wax hard, and that they
began to be offended because of the strictness of the word, his
heart was exceedingly sorrowful.

Alma 35:16
 16 Therefore, he caused that his sons should be gathered
together, that he might give unto them every one his charge,
separately, concerning the things pertaining unto righteousness.
And we have an account of his commandments, which he gave unto
them according to his own record.

