Helaman 2
Chapter 2

Helaman 2:1
 1 And it came to pass in the forty and second year of the reign
of the judges, after Moronihah had established again peace
between the Nephites and the Lamanites, behold there was no one
to fill the judgment-seat; therefore there began to be a
contention again among the people concerning who should fill the
judgment-seat.

Helaman 2:2
 2 And it came to pass that Helaman, who was the son of Helaman,
was appointed to fill the judgment-seat, by the voice of the
people.

Helaman 2:3
 3 But behold, Kishkumen, who had murdered Pahoran, did lay wait
to destroy Helaman also; and he was upheld by his band, who had
entered into a covenant that no one should know his wickedness.

Helaman 2:4
 4 For there was one Gadianton, who was exceedingly expert in
many words, and also in his craft, to carry on the secret work of
murder and of robbery; therefore he became the leader of the band
of Kishkumen.

Helaman 2:5
 5 Therefore he did flatter them, and also Kishkumen, that if
they would place him in the judgment-seat he would grant unto
those who belonged to his band that they should be placed in
power and authority among the people; therefore Kishkumen sought
to destroy Helaman.

Helaman 2:6
 6 And it came to pass as he went forth towards the judgment-seat
to destroy Helaman, behold one of the servants of Helaman, having
been out by night, and having obtained, through disguise, a
knowledge of those plans which had been laid by this band to
destroy Helaman--

Helaman 2:7
 7 And it came to pass that he met Kishkumen, and he gave unto
him a sign; therefore Kishkumen made known unto him the object of
his desire, desiring that he would conduct him to the
judgment-seat that he might murder Helaman.

Helaman 2:8
 8 And when the servant of Helaman had known all the heart of
Kishkumen, and how that it was his object to murder, and also
that it was the object of all those who belonged to his band to
murder, and to rob, and to gain power, (and this was their secret
plan, and their combination) the servant of Helaman said unto
Kishkumen: Let us go forth unto the judgment-seat.

Helaman 2:9
 9 Now this did please Kishkumen exceedingly, for he did suppose
that he should accomplish his design; but behold, the servant of
Helaman, as they were going forth unto the judgment-seat, did
stab Kishkumen even to the heart, that he fell dead without a
groan. And he ran and told Helaman all the things which he had
seen, and heard, and done.

Helaman 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that Helaman did send forth to take this
band of robbers and secret murderers, that they might be executed
according to the law.

Helaman 2:11
 11 But behold, when Gadianton had found that Kishkumen did not
return he feared lest that he should be destroyed; therefore he
caused that his band should follow him. And they took their
flight out of the land, by a secret way, into the wilderness; and
thus when Helaman sent forth to take them they could nowhere be
found.

Helaman 2:12
 12 And more of this Gadianton shall be spoken hereafter. And
thus ended the forty and second year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 2:13
 13 And behold, in the end of this book ye shall see that this
Gadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, almost the entire
destruction of the people of Nephi.

Helaman 2:14
 14 Behold I do not mean the end of the book of Helaman, but I
mean the end of the book of Nephi, from which I have taken all
the account which I have written.

