3 Nephi 2
Chapter 2

3 Nephi 2:1
 1 And it came to pass that thus passed away the ninety and fifth
year also, and the people began to forget those signs and wonders
which they had heard, and began to be less and less astonished at
a sign or a wonder from heaven, insomuch that they began to be
hard in their hearts, and blind in their minds, and began to
disbelieve all which they had heard and seen--

3 Nephi 2:2
 2 Imagining up some vain thing in their hearts, that it was
wrought by men and by the power of the devil, to lead away and
deceive the hearts of the people; and thus did Satan get
possession of the hearts of the people again, insomuch that he
did blind their eyes and lead them away to believe that the
doctrine of Christ was a foolish and a vain thing.

3 Nephi 2:3
 3 And it came to pass that the people began to wax strong in
wickedness and abominations; and they did not believe that there
should be any more signs or wonders given; and Satan did go
about, leading away the hearts of the people, tempting them and
causing them that they should do great wickedness in the land.

3 Nephi 2:4
 4 And thus did pass away the ninety and sixth year; and also the
ninety and seventh year; and also the ninety and eighth year; and
also the ninety and ninth year;

3 Nephi 2:5
 5 And also an hundred years had passed away since the days of
Mosiah, who was king over the people of the Nephites.

3 Nephi 2:6
 6 And six hundred and nine years had passed away since Lehi left
Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 2:7
 7 And nine years had passed away from the time when the sign was
given, which was spoken of by the prophets, that Christ should
come into the world.

3 Nephi 2:8
 8 Now the Nephites began to reckon their time from this period
when the sign was given, or from the coming of Christ; therefore,
nine years had passed away.

3 Nephi 2:9
 9 And Nephi, who was the father of Nephi, who had the charge of
the records, did not return to the land of Zarahemla, and could
nowhere be found in all the land.

3 Nephi 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that the people did still remain in
wickedness, notwithstanding the much preaching and prophesying
which was sent among them; and thus passed away the tenth year
also; and the eleventh year also passed away in iniquity.

3 Nephi 2:11
 11 And it came to pass in the thirteenth year there began to be
wars and contentions throughout all the land; for the Gadianton
robbers had become so numerous, and did slay so many of the
people, and did lay waste so many cities, and did spread so much
death and carnage throughout the land, that it became expedient
that all the people, both the Nephites and the Lamanites, should
take up arms against them.

3 Nephi 2:12
 12 Therefore, all the Lamanites who had become converted unto
the Lord did unite with their brethren, the Nephites, and were
compelled, for the safety of their lives and their women and
their children, to take up arms against those Gadianton robbers,
yea, and also to maintain their rights, and the privileges of
their church and of their worship, and their freedom and their
liberty.

3 Nephi 2:13
 13 And it came to pass that before this thirteenth year had
passed away the Nephites were threatened with utter destruction
because of this war, which had become exceedingly sore.

3 Nephi 2:14
 14 And it came to pass that those Lamanites who had united with
the Nephites were numbered among the Nephites;

3 Nephi 2:15
 15 And their curse was taken from them, and their skin became
white like unto the Nephites;

3 Nephi 2:16
 16 And their young men and their daughters became exceedingly
fair, and they were numbered among the Nephites, and were called
Nephites. And thus ended the thirteenth year.

3 Nephi 2:17
 17 And it came to pass in the commencement of the fourteenth
year, the war between the robbers and the people of Nephi did
continue and did become exceedingly sore; nevertheless, the
people of Nephi did gain some advantage of the robbers, insomuch
that they did drive them back out of their lands into the
mountains and into their secret places.

3 Nephi 2:18
 18 And thus ended the fourteenth year. And in the fifteenth
year they did come forth against the people of Nephi; and because
of the wickedness of the people of Nephi, and their many
contentions and dissensions, the Gadianton robbers did gain many
advantages over them.

3 Nephi 2:19
 19 And thus ended the fifteenth year, and thus were the people
in a state of many afflictions; and the sword of destruction did
hang over them, insomuch that they were about to be smitten down
by it, and this because of their iniquity.

