3 Nephi 22
Chapter 22

3 Nephi 22:1
 1 And then shall that which is written come to pass: Sing, O
barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and
cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child; for more are
the children of the desolate than the children of the married
wife, saith the Lord.

3 Nephi 22:2
 2 Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the
curtains of thy habitations; spare not, lengthen thy cords and
strengthen thy stakes;

3 Nephi 22:3
 3 For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left,
and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles and make the desolate
cities to be inhabited.

3 Nephi 22:4
 4 Fear not, for thou shalt not be ashamed; neither be thou
confounded, for thou shalt not be put to shame; for thou shalt
forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the
reproach of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy
widowhood any more.

3 Nephi 22:5
 5 For thy maker, thy husband, the Lord of Hosts is his name; and
thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel--the God of the whole earth
shall he be called.

3 Nephi 22:6
 6 For the Lord hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved
in spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy
God.

3 Nephi 22:7
 7 For a small moment have I forsaken thee, but with great
mercies will I gather thee.

3 Nephi 22:8
 8 In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but
with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the
Lord thy Redeemer.

3 Nephi 22:9
 9 For this, the waters of Noah unto me, for as I have sworn that
the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so have I
sworn that I would not be wroth with thee.

3 Nephi 22:10
 10 For the mountains shall depart and the hills be removed, but
my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the
covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy
on thee.

3 Nephi 22:11
 11 O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted!
Behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colors, and lay thy
foundations with sapphires.

3 Nephi 22:12
 12 And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of
carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.

3 Nephi 22:13
 13 And all thy children shall be taught of the Lord; and great
shall be the peace of thy children.

3 Nephi 22:14
 14 In righteousness shalt thou be established; thou shalt be far
from oppression for thou shalt not fear, and from terror for it
shall not come near thee.

3 Nephi 22:15
 15 Behold, they shall surely gather together against thee, not
by me; whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall
for thy sake.

3 Nephi 22:16
 16 Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in
the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and
I have created the waster to destroy.

3 Nephi 22:17
 17 No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and
every tongue that shall revile against thee in judgment thou
shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord,
and their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord.

