3 Nephi 10
Chapter 10

3 Nephi 10:1
 1 And now behold, it came to pass that all the people of the
land did hear these sayings, and did witness of it. And after
these sayings there was silence in the land for the space of many
hours;

3 Nephi 10:2
 2 For so great was the astonishment of the people that they did
cease lamenting and howling for the loss of their kindred which
had been slain; therefore there was silence in all the land for
the space of many hours.

3 Nephi 10:3
 3 And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the
people, and all the people did hear, and did witness of it,
saying:

3 Nephi 10:4
 4 O ye people of these great cities which have fallen, who are
descendants of Jacob, yea, who are of the house of Israel, how
oft have I gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her
wings, and have nourished you.

3 Nephi 10:5
 5 And again, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen
gathereth her chickens under her wings, yea, O ye people of the
house of Israel, who have fallen; yea, O ye people of the house
of Israel, ye that dwell at Jerusalem, as ye that have fallen;
yea, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her
chickens, and ye would not.

3 Nephi 10:6
 6 O ye house of Israel whom I have spared, how oft will I gather
you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if ye will
repent and return unto me with full purpose of heart.

3 Nephi 10:7
 7 But if not, O house of Israel, the places of your dwellings
shall become desolate until the time of the fulfilling of the
covenant to your fathers.

3 Nephi 10:8
 8 And now it came to pass that after the people had heard these
words, behold, they began to weep and howl again because of the
loss of their kindred and friends.

3 Nephi 10:9
 9 And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass away.
And it was in the morning, and the darkness dispersed from off
the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the
rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease,
and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.

3 Nephi 10:10
 10 And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood; and
the mourning, and the weeping, and the wailing of the people who
were spared alive did cease; and their mourning was turned into
joy, and their lamentations into the praise and thanksgiving unto
the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.

3 Nephi 10:11
 11 And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled which had been
spoken by the prophets.

3 Nephi 10:12
 12 And it was the more righteous part of the people who were
saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them
not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints,
who were spared--

3 Nephi 10:13
 13 And they were spared and were not sunk and buried up in the
earth; and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and
they were not burned by fire, neither were they fallen upon and
crushed to death; and they were not carried away in the
whirlwind; neither were they overpowered by the vapor of smoke
and of darkness.

3 Nephi 10:14
 14 And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the
scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these
deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and by tempests,
and by whirlwinds, and by the opening of the earth to receive
them, and all these things are not unto the fulfilling of the
prophecies of many of the holy prophets.

3 Nephi 10:15
 15 Behold, I say unto you, Yea, many have testified of these
things at the coming of Christ, and were slain because they
testified of these things.

3 Nephi 10:16
 16 Yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also
Zenock spake concerning these things, because they testified
particularly concerning us, who are the remnant of their seed.

3 Nephi 10:17
 17 Behold, our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant
of the seed of Joseph. And behold, are not we a remnant of the
seed of Joseph? And these things which testify of us, are they
not written upon the plates of brass which our father Lehi
brought out of Jerusalem?

3 Nephi 10:18
 18 And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and
fourth year, behold, I will show unto you that the people of
Nephi who were spared, and also those who had been called
Lamanites, who had been spared, did have great favors shown unto
them, and great blessings poured out upon their heads, insomuch
that soon after the ascension of Christ into heaven he did truly
manifest himself unto them--

3 Nephi 10:19
 19 Showing his body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an
account of his ministry shall be given hereafter. Therefore for
this time I make an end of my sayings.

