3 Nephi 14
Chapter 14

3 Nephi 14:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
he turned again to the multitude, and did open his mouth unto
them again, saying: Verily, verily, I say unto you, Judge not,
that ye be not judged.

3 Nephi 14:2
 2 For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with
what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.

3 Nephi 14:3
 3 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye,
but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?

3 Nephi 14:4
 4 Or how wilt thou say to thy brother: Let me pull the mote out
of thine eye--and behold, a beam is in thine own eye?

3 Nephi 14:5
 5 Thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye; and
then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's
eye.

3 Nephi 14:6
 6 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye
your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their
feet, and turn again and rend you.

3 Nephi 14:7
 7 Ask, and it shall be given unto you; seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

3 Nephi 14:8
 8 For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh,
findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.

3 Nephi 14:9
 9 Or what man is there of you, who, if his son ask bread, will
give him a stone?

3 Nephi 14:10
 10 Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?

3 Nephi 14:11
 11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your
children, how much more shall your Father who is in heaven give
good things to them that ask him?

3 Nephi 14:12
 12 Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do
to you, do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the
prophets.

3 Nephi 14:13
 13 Enter ye in at the strait gate; for wide is the gate, and
broad is the way, which leadeth to destruction, and many there be
who go in thereat;

3 Nephi 14:14
 14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

3 Nephi 14:15
 15 Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.

3 Nephi 14:16
 16 Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of
thorns, or figs of thistles?

3 Nephi 14:17
 17 Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a
corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.

3 Nephi 14:18
 18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither a corrupt
tree bring forth good fruit.

3 Nephi 14:19
 19 Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down,
and cast into the fire.

3 Nephi 14:20
 20 Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them.

3 Nephi 14:21
 21 Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my
Father who is in heaven.

3 Nephi 14:22
 22 Many will say to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have we not
prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and
in thy name done many wonderful works?

3 Nephi 14:23
 23 And then will I profess unto them: I never knew you; depart
from me, ye that work iniquity.

3 Nephi 14:24
 24 Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine and doeth
them, I will liken him unto a wise man, who built his house upon
a rock--

3 Nephi 14:25
 25 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not, for it was
founded upon a rock.

3 Nephi 14:26
 26 And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth
them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house
upon the sand--

3 Nephi 14:27
 27 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the
fall of it.

