3 Nephi 5
Chapter 5

3 Nephi 5:1
 1 And now behold, there was not a living soul among all the
people of the Nephites who did doubt in the least the words of
all the holy prophets who had spoken; for they knew that it must
needs be that they must be fulfilled.

3 Nephi 5:2
 2 And they knew that it must be expedient that Christ had come,
because of the many signs which had been given, according to the
words of the prophets; and because of the things which had come
to pass already they knew that it must needs be that all things
should come to pass according to that which had been spoken.

3 Nephi 5:3
 3 Therefore they did forsake all their sins, and their
abominations, and their whoredoms, and did serve God with all
diligence day and night.

3 Nephi 5:4
 4 And now it came to pass that when they had taken all the
robbers prisoners, insomuch that none did escape who were not
slain, they did cast their prisoners into prison, and did cause
the word of God to be preached unto them; and as many as would
repent of their sins and enter into a covenant that they would
murder no more were set at liberty.

3 Nephi 5:5
 5 But as many as there were who did not enter into a covenant,
and who did still continue to have those secret murders in their
hearts, yea, as many as were found breathing out threatenings
against their brethren were condemned and punished according to
the law.

3 Nephi 5:6
 6 And thus they did put an end to all those wicked, and secret,
and abominable combinations, in the which there was so much
wickedness, and so many murders committed.

3 Nephi 5:7
 7 And thus had the twenty and second year passed away, and the
twenty and third year also, and the twenty and fourth, and the
twenty and fifth; and thus had twenty and five years passed away.

3 Nephi 5:8
 8 And there had many things transpired which, in the eyes of
some, would be great and marvelous; nevertheless, they cannot all
be written in this book; yea, this book cannot contain even a
hundredth part of what was done among so many people in the space
of twenty and five years;

3 Nephi 5:9
 9 But behold there are records which do contain all the
proceedings of this people; and a shorter but true account was
given by Nephi.

3 Nephi 5:10
 10 Therefore I have made my record of these things according to
the record of Nephi, which was engraven on the plates which were
called the plates of Nephi.

3 Nephi 5:11
 11 And behold, I do make the record on plates which I have made
with mine own hands.

3 Nephi 5:12
 12 And behold, I am called Mormon, being called after the land
of Mormon, the land in which Alma did establish the church among
the people, yea, the first church which was established among
them after their transgression.

3 Nephi 5:13
 13 Behold, I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I
have been called of him to declare his word among his people,
that they might have everlasting life.

3 Nephi 5:14
 14 And it hath become expedient that I, according to the will of
God, that the prayers of those who have gone hence, who were the
holy ones, should be fulfilled according to their faith, should
make a record of these things which have been done--

3 Nephi 5:15
 15 Yea, a small record of that which hath taken place from the
time that Lehi left Jerusalem, even down until the present time.

3 Nephi 5:16
 16 Therefore I do make my record from the accounts which have
been given by those who were before me, until the commencement of
my day;

3 Nephi 5:17
 17 And then I do make a record of the things which I have seen
with mine own eyes.

3 Nephi 5:18
 18 And I know the record which I make to be a just and a true
record; nevertheless there are many things which, according to
our language, we are not able to write.

3 Nephi 5:19
 19 And now I make an end of my saying, which is of myself, and
proceed to give my account of the things which have been before
me.

3 Nephi 5:20
 20 I am Mormon, and a pure descendant of Lehi. I have reason to
bless my God and my Savior Jesus Christ, that he brought our
fathers out of the land of Jerusalem, (and no one knew it save it
were himself and those whom he brought out of that land) and that
he hath given me and my people so much knowledge unto the
salvation of our souls.

3 Nephi 5:21
 21 Surely he hath blessed the house of Jacob, and hath been
merciful unto the seed of Joseph.

3 Nephi 5:22
 22 And insomuch as the children of Lehi have kept his
commandments he hath blessed them and prospered them according to
his word.

3 Nephi 5:23
 23 Yea, and surely shall he again bring a remnant of the seed of
Joseph to the knowledge of the Lord their God.

3 Nephi 5:24
 24 And as surely as the Lord liveth, will he gather in from the
four quarters of the earth all the remnant of the seed of Jacob,
who are scattered abroad upon all the face of the earth.

3 Nephi 5:25
 25 And as he hath covenanted with all the house of Jacob, even
so shall the covenant wherewith he hath covenanted with the house
of Jacob be fulfilled in his own due time, unto the restoring all
the house of Jacob unto the knowledge of the covenant that he
hath covenanted with them.

3 Nephi 5:26
 26 And then shall they know their Redeemer, who is Jesus Christ,
the Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from the four
quarters of the earth unto their own lands, from whence they have
been dispersed; yea, as the Lord liveth so shall it be. Amen.

