Ether 13
Chapter 13

Ether 13:1
 1 And now I, Moroni, proceed to finish my record concerning the
destruction of the people of whom I have been writing.

Ether 13:2
 2 For behold, they rejected all the words of Ether; for he truly
told them of all things, from the beginning of man; and that
after the waters had receded from off the face of this land it
became a choice land above all other lands, a chosen land of the
Lord; wherefore the Lord would have that all men should serve him
who dwell upon the face thereof;

Ether 13:3
 3 And that it was the place of the New Jerusalem, which should
come down out of heaven, and the holy sanctuary of the Lord.

Ether 13:4
 4 Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake concerning
a New Jerusalem upon this land.

Ether 13:5
 5 And he spake also concerning the house of Israel, and the
Jerusalem from whence Lehi should come--after it should be
destroyed it should be built up again, a holy city unto the Lord;
wherefore, it could not be a new Jerusalem for it had been in a
time of old; but it should be built up again, and become a holy
city of the Lord; and it should be built unto the house of
Israel.

Ether 13:6
 6 And that a New Jerusalem should be built upon this land, unto
the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has
been a type.

Ether 13:7
 7 For as Joseph brought his father down into the land of Egypt,
even so he died there; wherefore, the Lord brought a remnant of
the seed of Joseph out of the land of Jerusalem, that he might be
merciful unto the seed of Joseph that they should perish not,
even as he was merciful unto the father of Joseph that he should
perish not.

Ether 13:8
 8 Wherefore, the remnant of the house of Joseph shall be built
upon this land; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and
they shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the
Jerusalem of old; and they shall no more be confounded, until the
end come when the earth shall pass away.

Ether 13:9
 9 And there shall be a new heaven and a new earth; and they
shall be like unto the old save the old have passed away, and all
things have become new.

Ether 13:10
 10 And then cometh the New Jerusalem; and blessed are they who
dwell therein, for it is they whose garments are white through
the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who are numbered among
the remnant of the seed of Joseph, who were of the house of
Israel.

Ether 13:11
 11 And then also cometh the Jerusalem of old; and the
inhabitants thereof, blessed are they, for they have been washed
in the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who were scattered
and gathered in from the four quarters of the earth, and from the
north countries, and are partakers of the fulfilling of the
covenant which God made with their father, Abraham.

Ether 13:12
 12 And when these things come, bringeth to pass the scripture
which saith, there are they who were first, who shall be last;
and there are they who were last, who shall be first.

Ether 13:13
 13 And I was about to write more, but I am forbidden; but great
and marvelous were the prophecies of Ether; but they esteemed him
as naught, and cast him out; and he hid himself in the cavity of
a rock by day, and by night he went forth viewing the things
which should come upon the people.

Ether 13:14
 14 And as he dwelt in the cavity of a rock he made the remainder
of his record, viewing the destructions which came upon the
people, by night.

Ether 13:15
 15 And it came to pass that in that same year in which he was
cast out from among the people there began to be a great war
among the people, for there were many who rose up, who were
mighty men, and sought to destroy Coriantumr by their secret
plans of wickedness, of which hath been spoken.

Ether 13:16
 16 And now Coriantumr, having studied, himself, in all the arts
of war and all the cunning of the world, wherefore he gave battle
unto them who sought to destroy him.

Ether 13:17
 17 But he repented not, neither his fair sons nor daughters;
neither the fair sons and daughters of Cohor; neither the fair
sons and daughters of Corihor; and in fine, there were none of
the fair sons and daughters upon the face of the whole earth who
repented of their sins.

Ether 13:18
 18 Wherefore, it came to pass that in the first year that Ether
dwelt in the cavity of a rock, there were many people who were
slain by the sword of those secret combinations, fighting against
Coriantumr that they might obtain the kingdom.

Ether 13:19
 19 And it came to pass that the sons of Coriantumr fought much
and bled much.

Ether 13:20
 20 And in the second year the word of the Lord came to Ether,
that he should go and prophesy unto Coriantumr that, if he would
repent, and all his household, the Lord would give unto him his
kingdom and spare the people--

Ether 13:21
 21 Otherwise they should be destroyed, and all his household
save it were himself. And he should only live to see the
fulfilling of the prophecies which had been spoken concerning
another people receiving the land for their inheritance; and
Coriantumr should receive a burial by them; and every soul should
be destroyed save it were Coriantumr.

Ether 13:22
 22 And it came to pass that Coriantumr repented not, neither his
household, neither the people; and the wars ceased not; and they
sought to kill Ether, but he fled from before them and hid again
in the cavity of the rock.

Ether 13:23
 23 And it came to pass that there arose up Shared, and he also
gave battle unto Coriantumr; and he did beat him, insomuch that
in the third year he did bring him into captivity.

Ether 13:24
 24 And the sons of Coriantumr, in the fourth year, did beat
Shared, and did obtain the kingdom again unto their father.

Ether 13:25
 25 Now there began to be a war upon all the face of the land,
every man with his band fighting for that which he desired.

Ether 13:26
 26 And there were robbers, and in fine, all manner of wickedness
upon all the face of the land.

Ether 13:27
 27 And it came to pass that Coriantumr was exceedingly angry
with Shared, and he went against him with his armies to battle;
and they did meet in great anger, and they did meet in the valley
of Gilgal; and the battle became exceedingly sore.

Ether 13:28
 28 And it came to pass that Shared fought against him for the
space of three days. And it came to pass that Coriantumr beat
him, and did pursue him until he came to the plains of Heshlon.

Ether 13:29
 29 And it came to pass that Shared gave him battle again upon
the plains; and behold, he did beat Coriantumr, and drove him
back again to the valley of Gilgal.

Ether 13:30
 30 And Coriantumr gave Shared battle again in the valley of
Gilgal, in which he beat Shared and slew him.

Ether 13:31
 31 And Shared wounded Coriantumr in his thigh, that he did not
go to battle again for the space of two years, in which time all
the people upon the face of the land were shedding blood, and
there was none to restrain them.

