Ether 2
Chapter 2

Ether 2:1
 1 And it came to pass that Jared and his brother, and their
families, and also the friends of Jared and his brother and their
families, went down into the valley which was northward, (and the
name of the valley was Nimrod, being called after the mighty
hunter) with their flocks which they had gathered together, male
and female, of every kind.

Ether 2:2
 2 And they did also lay snares and catch fowls of the air; and
they did also prepare a vessel, in which they did carry with them
the fish of the waters.

Ether 2:3
 3 And they did also carry with them deseret, which, by
interpretation, is a honey bee; and thus they did carry with them
swarms of bees, and all manner of that which was upon the face of
the land, seeds of every kind.

Ether 2:4
 4 And it came to pass that when they had come down into the
valley of Nimrod the Lord came down and talked with the brother
of Jared; and he was in a cloud, and the brother of Jared saw him
not.

Ether 2:5
 5 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded them that they
should go forth into the wilderness, yea, into that quarter where
there never had man been. And it came to pass that the Lord did
go before them, and did talk with them as he stood in a cloud,
and gave directions whither they should travel.

Ether 2:6
 6 And it came to pass that they did travel in the wilderness,
and did build barges, in which they did cross many waters, being
directed continually by the hand of the Lord.

Ether 2:7
 7 And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the
sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth
even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other
lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people.

Ether 2:8
 8 And he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that
whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time
henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God,
or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should
come upon them.

Ether 2:9
 9 And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this
land, that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall
possess it shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the
fulness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fulness of
his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity.

Ether 2:10
 10 For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other
lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall
be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is
not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land,
that they are swept off.

Ether 2:11
 11 And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the
decrees of God--that ye may repent, and not continue in your
iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the
fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the
land have hitherto done.

Ether 2:12
 12 Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall
possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and
from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the
God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by
the things which we have written.

Ether 2:13
 13 And now I proceed with my record; for behold, it came to pass
that the Lord did bring Jared and his brethren forth even to that
great sea which divideth the lands. And as they came to the sea
they pitched their tents; and they called the name of the place
Moriancumer; and they dwelt in tents, and dwelt in tents upon the
seashore for the space of four years.

Ether 2:14
 14 And it came to pass at the end of four years that the Lord
came again unto the brother of Jared, and stood in a cloud and
talked with him. And for the space of three hours did the Lord
talk with the brother of Jared, and chastened him because he
remembered not to call upon the name of the Lord.

Ether 2:15
 15 And the brother of Jared repented of the evil which he had
done, and did call upon the name of the Lord for his brethren who
were with him. And the Lord said unto him: I will forgive thee
and thy brethren of their sins; but thou shalt not sin any more,
for ye shall remember that my Spirit will not always strive with
man; wherefore, if ye will sin until ye are fully ripe ye shall
be cut off from the presence of the Lord. And these are my
thoughts upon the land which I shall give you for your
inheritance; for it shall be a land choice above all other lands.

Ether 2:16
 16 And the Lord said: Go to work and build, after the manner of
barges which ye have hitherto built. And it came to pass that
the brother of Jared did go to work, and also his brethren, and
built barges after the manner which they had built, according to
the instructions of the Lord. And they were small, and they were
light upon the water, even like unto the lightness of a fowl upon
the water.

Ether 2:17
 17 And they were built after a manner that they were exceedingly
tight, even that they would hold water like unto a dish; and the
bottom thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the sides thereof
were tight like unto a dish; and the ends thereof were peaked;
and the top thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the length
thereof was the length of a tree; and the door thereof, when it
was shut, was tight like unto a dish.

Ether 2:18
 18 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared cried unto the
Lord, saying: O Lord, I have performed the work which thou hast
commanded me, and I have made the barges according as thou hast
directed me.

Ether 2:19
 19 And behold, O Lord, in them there is no light; whither shall
we steer? And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot
breathe, save it is the air which is in them; therefore we shall
perish.

Ether 2:20
 20 And the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: Behold, thou
shalt make a hole in the top, and also in the bottom; and when
thou shalt suffer for air thou shalt unstop the hole and receive
air. And if it be so that the water come in upon thee, behold,
ye shall stop the hole, that ye may not perish in the flood.

Ether 2:21
 21 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did so,
according as the Lord had commanded.

Ether 2:22
 22 And he cried again unto the Lord saying: O Lord, behold I
have done even as thou hast commanded me; and I have prepared the
vessels for my people, and behold there is no light in them.
Behold, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this great
water in darkness?

Ether 2:23
 23 And the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: What will ye
that I should do that ye may have light in your vessels? For
behold, ye cannot have windows, for they will be dashed in
pieces; neither shall ye take fire with you, for ye shall not go
by the light of fire.

Ether 2:24
 24 For behold, ye shall be as a whale in the midst of the sea;
for the mountain waves shall dash upon you. Nevertheless, I will
bring you up again out of the depths of the sea; for the winds
have gone forth out of my mouth, and also the rains and the
floods have I sent forth.

Ether 2:25
 25 And behold, I prepare you against these things; for ye cannot
cross this great deep save I prepare you against the waves of the
sea, and the winds which have gone forth, and the floods which
shall come. Therefore what will ye that I should prepare for you
that ye may have light when ye are swallowed up in the depths of
the sea?

