Ether 10
Chapter 10

Ether 10:1
 1 And it came to pass that Shez, who was a descendant of
Heth--for Heth had perished by the famine, and all his household
save it were Shez--wherefore, Shez began to build up again a
broken people.

Ether 10:2
 2 And it came to pass that Shez did remember the destruction of
his fathers, and he did build up a righteous kingdom; for he
remembered what the Lord had done in bringing Jared and his
brother across the deep; and he did walk in the ways of the Lord;
and he begat sons and daughters.

Ether 10:3
 3 And his eldest son, whose name was Shez, did rebel against
him; nevertheless, Shez was smitten by the hand of a robber,
because of his exceeding riches, which brought peace again unto
his father.

Ether 10:4
 4 And it came to pass that his father did build up many cities
upon the face of the land, and the people began again to spread
over all the face of the land. And Shez did live to an
exceedingly old age; and he begat Riplakish. And he died, and
Riplakish reigned in his stead.

Ether 10:5
 5 And it came to pass that Riplakish did not do that which was
right in the sight of the Lord, for he did have many wives and
concubines, and did lay that upon men's shoulders which was
grievous to be borne; yea, he did tax them with heavy taxes; and
with the taxes he did build many spacious buildings.

Ether 10:6
 6 And he did erect him an exceedingly beautiful throne; and he
did build many prisons, and whoso would not be subject unto taxes
he did cast into prison; and whoso was not able to pay taxes he
did cast into prison; and he did cause that they should labor
continually for their support; and whoso refused to labor he did
cause to be put to death.

Ether 10:7
 7 Wherefore he did obtain all his fine work, yea, even his fine
gold he did cause to be refined in prison, and all manner of fine
workmanship he did cause to be wrought in prison. And it came to
pass that he did afflict the people with his whoredoms and
abominations.

Ether 10:8
 8 And when he had reigned for the space of forty and two years
the people did rise up in rebellion against him; and there began
to be war again in the land, insomuch that Riplakish was killed,
and his descendants were driven out of the land.

Ether 10:9
 9 And it came to pass after the space of many years, Morianton,
(he being a descendant of Riplakish) gathered together an army of
outcasts, and went forth and gave battle unto the people; and he
gained power over many cities; and the war became exceedingly
sore, and did last for the space of many years; and he did gain
power over all the land, and did establish himself king over all
the land.

Ether 10:10
 10 And after that he had established himself king he did ease
the burden of the people, by which he did gain favor in the eyes
of the people, and they did anoint him to be their king.

Ether 10:11
 11 And he did do justice unto the people, but not unto himself
because of his many whoredoms; wherefore he was cut off from the
presence of the Lord.

Ether 10:12
 12 And it came to pass that Morianton built up many cities, and
the people became exceedingly rich under his reign, both in
buildings, and in gold and silver, and in raising grain, and in
flocks, and herds, and such things which had been restored unto
them.

Ether 10:13
 13 And Morianton did live to an exceedingly great age, and then
he begat Kim; and Kim did reign in the stead of his father; and
he did reign eight years, and his father died. And it came to
pass that Kim did not reign in righteousness, wherefore he was
not favored of the Lord.

Ether 10:14
 14 And his brother did rise up in rebellion against him, by
which he did bring him into captivity; and he did remain in
captivity all his days; and he begat sons and daughters in
captivity, and in his old age he begat Levi; and he died.

Ether 10:15
 15 And it came to pass that Levi did serve in captivity after
the death of his father, for the space of forty and two years.
And he did make war against the king of the land, by which he did
obtain unto himself the kingdom.

Ether 10:16
 16 And after he had obtained unto himself the kingdom he did
that which was right in the sight of the Lord; and the people did
prosper in the land; and he did live to a good old age, and begat
sons and daughters; and he also begat Corom, whom he anointed
king in his stead.

Ether 10:17
 17 And it came to pass that Corom did that which was good in the
sight of the Lord all his days; and he begat many sons and
daughters; and after he had seen many days he did pass away, even
like unto the rest of the earth; and Kish reigned in his stead.

Ether 10:18
 18 And it came to pass that Kish passed away also, and Lib
reigned in his stead.

Ether 10:19
 19 And it came to pass that Lib also did that which was good in
the sight of the Lord. And in the days of Lib the poisonous
serpents were destroyed. Wherefore they did go into the land
southward, to hunt food for the people of the land, for the land
was covered with animals of the forest. And Lib also himself
became a great hunter.

Ether 10:20
 20 And they built a great city by the narrow neck of land, by
the place where the sea divides the land.

Ether 10:21
 21 And they did preserve the land southward for a wilderness, to
get game. And the whole face of the land northward was covered
with inhabitants.

Ether 10:22
 22 And they were exceedingly industrious, and they did buy and
sell and traffic one with another, that they might get gain.

Ether 10:23
 23 And they did work in all manner of ore, and they did make
gold, and silver, and iron, and brass, and all manner of metals;
and they did dig it out of the earth; wherefore they did cast up
mighty heaps of earth to get ore, of gold, and of silver, and of
iron, and of copper. And they did work all manner of fine work.

Ether 10:24
 24 And they did have silks, and fine-twined linen; and they did
work all manner of cloth, that they might clothe themselves from
their nakedness.

Ether 10:25
 25 And they did make all manner of tools to till the earth, both
to plow and to sow, to reap and to hoe, and also to thrash.

Ether 10:26
 26 And they did make all manner of tools with which they did
work their beasts.

Ether 10:27
 27 And they did make all manner of weapons of war. And they did
work all manner of work of exceedingly curious workmanship.

Ether 10:28
 28 And never could be a people more blessed than were they, and
more prospered by the hand of the Lord. And they were in a land
that was choice above all lands, for the Lord had spoken it.

Ether 10:29
 29 And it came to pass that Lib did live many years, and begat
sons and daughters; and he also begat Hearthom.

Ether 10:30
 30 And it came to pass that Hearthom reigned in the stead of his
father. And when Hearthom had reigned twenty and four years,
behold, the kingdom was taken away from him. And he served many
years in captivity, yea, even all the remainder of his days.

Ether 10:31
 31 And he begat Heth, and Heth lived in captivity all his days.
And Heth begat Aaron, and Aaron dwelt in captivity all his days;
and he begat Amnigaddah, and Amnigaddah also dwelt in captivity
all his days; and he begat Coriantum, and Coriantum dwelt in
captivity all his days; and he begat Com.

Ether 10:32
 32 And it came to pass that Com drew away the half of the
kingdom. And he reigned over the half of the kingdom forty and
two years; and he went to battle against the king, Amgid, and
they fought for the space of many years, during which time Com
gained power over Amgid, and obtained power over the remainder of
the kingdom.

Ether 10:33
 33 And in the days of Com there began to be robbers in the land;
and they adopted the old plans, and administered oaths after the
manner of the ancients, and sought again to destroy the kingdom.

Ether 10:34
 34 Now Com did fight against them much; nevertheless, he did not
prevail against them.

