Ether 6
Chapter 6

Ether 6:1
 1 And now I, Moroni, proceed to give the record of Jared and his
brother.

Ether 6:2
 2 For it came to pass after the Lord had prepared the stones
which the brother of Jared had carried up into the mount, the
brother of Jared came down out of the mount, and he did put forth
the stones into the vessels which were prepared, one in each end
thereof; and behold, they did give light unto the vessels.

Ether 6:3
 3 And thus the Lord caused stones to shine in darkness, to give
light unto men, women, and children, that they might not cross
the great waters in darkness.

Ether 6:4
 4 And it came to pass that when they had prepared all manner of
food, that thereby they might subsist upon the water, and also
food for their flocks and herds, and whatsoever beast or animal
or fowl that they should carry with them--and it came to pass
that when they had done all these things they got aboard of their
vessels or barges, and set forth into the sea, commending
themselves unto the Lord their God.

Ether 6:5
 5 And it came to pass that the Lord God caused that there should
be a furious wind blow upon the face of the waters, towards the
promised land; and thus they were tossed upon the waves of the
sea before the wind.

Ether 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that they were many times buried in the
depths of the sea, because of the mountain waves which broke upon
them, and also the great and terrible tempests which were caused
by the fierceness of the wind.

Ether 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that when they were buried in the deep
there was no water that could hurt them, their vessels being
tight like unto a dish, and also they were tight like unto the
ark of Noah; therefore when they were encompassed about by many
waters they did cry unto the Lord, and he did bring them forth
again upon the top of the waters.

Ether 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that the wind did never cease to blow
towards the promised land while they were upon the waters; and
thus they were driven forth before the wind.

Ether 6:9
 9 And they did sing praises unto the Lord; yea, the brother of
Jared did sing praises unto the Lord, and he did thank and praise
the Lord all the day long; and when the night came, they did not
cease to praise the Lord.

Ether 6:10
 10 And thus they were driven forth; and no monster of the sea
could break them, neither whale that could mar them; and they did
have light continually, whether it was above the water or under
the water.

Ether 6:11
 11 And thus they were driven forth, three hundred and forty and
four days upon the water.

Ether 6:12
 12 And they did land upon the shore of the promised land. And
when they had set their feet upon the shores of the promised land
they bowed themselves down upon the face of the land, and did
humble themselves before the Lord, and did shed tears of joy
before the Lord, because of the multitude of his tender mercies
over them.

Ether 6:13
 13 And it came to pass that they went forth upon the face of the
land, and began to till the earth.

Ether 6:14
 14 And Jared had four sons; and they were called Jacom, and
Gilgah, and Mahah, and Orihah.

Ether 6:15
 15 And the brother of Jared also begat sons and daughters.

Ether 6:16
 16 And the friends of Jared and his brother were in number about
twenty and two souls; and they also begat sons and daughters
before they came to the promised land; and therefore they began
to be many.

Ether 6:17
 17 And they were taught to walk humbly before the Lord; and they
were also taught from on high.

Ether 6:18
 18 And it came to pass that they began to spread upon the face
of the land, and to multiply and to till the earth; and they did
wax strong in the land.

Ether 6:19
 19 And the brother of Jared began to be old, and saw that he
must soon go down to the grave; wherefore he said unto Jared: Let
us gather together our people that we may number them, that we
may know of them what they will desire of us before we go down to
our graves.

Ether 6:20
 20 And accordingly the people were gathered together. Now the
number of the sons and the daughters of the brother of Jared were
twenty and two souls; and the number of sons and daughters of
Jared were twelve, he having four sons.

Ether 6:21
 21 And it came to pass that they did number their people; and
after that they had numbered them, they did desire of them the
things which they would that they should do before they went down
to their graves.

Ether 6:22
 22 And it came to pass that the people desired of them that they
should anoint one of their sons to be a king over them.

Ether 6:23
 23 And now behold, this was grievous unto them. And the brother
of Jared said unto them: Surely this thing leadeth into
captivity.

Ether 6:24
 24 But Jared said unto his brother: Suffer them that they may
have a king. And therefore he said unto them: Choose ye out from
among our sons a king, even whom ye will.

Ether 6:25
 25 And it came to pass that they chose even the firstborn of the
brother of Jared; and his name was Pagag. And it came to pass
that he refused and would not be their king. And the people
would that his father should constrain him, but his father would
not; and he commanded them that they should constrain no man to
be their king.

Ether 6:26
 26 And it came to pass that they chose all the brothers of
Pagag, and they would not.

Ether 6:27
 27 And it came to pass that neither would the sons of Jared,
even all save it were one; and Orihah was anointed to be king
over the people.

Ether 6:28
 28 And he began to reign, and the people began to prosper; and
they became exceedingly rich.

Ether 6:29
 29 And it came to pass that Jared died, and his brother also.

Ether 6:30
 30 And it came to pass that Orihah did walk humbly before the
Lord, and did remember how great things the Lord had done for his
father, and also taught his people how great things the Lord had
done for their fathers.

