Ether 15
Chapter 15

Ether 15:1
 1 And it came to pass when Coriantumr had recovered of his
wounds, he began to remember the words which Ether had spoken
unto him.

Ether 15:2
 2 He saw that there had been slain by the sword already nearly
two millions of his people, and he began to sorrow in his heart;
yea, there had been slain two millions of mighty men, and also
their wives and their children.

Ether 15:3
 3 He began to repent of the evil which he had done; he began to
remember the words which had been spoken by the mouth of all the
prophets, and he saw them that they were fulfilled thus far,
every whit; and his soul mourned and refused to be comforted.

Ether 15:4
 4 And it came to pass that he wrote an epistle unto Shiz,
desiring him that he would spare the people, and he would give up
the kingdom for the sake of the lives of the people.

Ether 15:5
 5 And it came to pass that when Shiz had received his epistle he
wrote an epistle unto Coriantumr, that if he would give himself
up, that he might slay him with his own sword, that he would
spare the lives of the people.

Ether 15:6
 6 And it came to pass that the people repented not of their
iniquity; and the people of Coriantumr were stirred up to anger
against the people of Shiz; and the people of Shiz were stirred
up to anger against the people of Coriantumr; wherefore, the
people of Shiz did give battle unto the people of Coriantumr.

Ether 15:7
 7 And when Coriantumr saw that he was about to fall he fled
again before the people of Shiz.

Ether 15:8
 8 And it came to pass that he came to the waters of Ripliancum,
which, by interpretation, is large, or to exceed all; wherefore,
when they came to these waters they pitched their tents; and Shiz
also pitched his tents near unto them; and therefore on the
morrow they did come to battle.

Ether 15:9
 9 And it came to pass that they fought an exceedingly sore
battle, in which Coriantumr was wounded again, and he fainted
with the loss of blood.

Ether 15:10
 10 And it came to pass that the armies of Coriantumr did press
upon the armies of Shiz that they beat them, that they caused
them to flee before them; and they did flee southward, and did
pitch their tents in a place which was called Ogath.

Ether 15:11
 11 And it came to pass that the army of Coriantumr did pitch
their tents by the hill Ramah; and it was that same hill where my
father Mormon did hide up the records unto the Lord, which were
sacred.

Ether 15:12
 12 And it came to pass that they did gather together all the
people upon all the face of the land, who had not been slain,
save it was Ether.

Ether 15:13
 13 And it came to pass that Ether did behold all the doings of
the people; and he beheld that the people who were for Coriantumr
were gathered together to the army of Coriantumr; and the people
who were for Shiz were gathered together to the army of Shiz.

Ether 15:14
 14 Wherefore, they were for the space of four years gathering
together the people, that they might get all who were upon the
face of the land, and that they might receive all the strength
which it was possible that they could receive.

Ether 15:15
 15 And it came to pass that when they were all gathered
together, every one to the army which he would, with their wives
and their children--both men women and children being armed with
weapons of war, having shields, and breastplates, and
head-plates, and being clothed after the manner of war--they did
march forth one against another to battle; and they fought all
that day, and conquered not.

Ether 15:16
 16 And it came to pass that when it was night they were weary,
and retired to their camps; and after they had retired to their
camps they took up a howling and a lamentation for the loss of
the slain of their people; and so great were their cries, their
howlings and lamentations, that they did rend the air
exceedingly.

Ether 15:17
 17 And it came to pass that on the morrow they did go again to
battle, and great and terrible was that day; nevertheless, they
conquered not, and when the night came again they did rend the
air with their cries, and their howlings, and their mournings,
for the loss of the slain of their people.

Ether 15:18
 18 And it came to pass that Coriantumr wrote again an epistle
unto Shiz, desiring that he would not come again to battle, but
that he would take the kingdom, and spare the lives of the
people.

Ether 15:19
 19 And behold, the Spirit of the Lord had ceased striving with
them, and Satan had full power over the hearts of the people; for
they were given up unto the hardness of their hearts, and the
blindness of their minds that they might be destroyed; wherefore
they went again to battle.

Ether 15:20
 20 And it came to pass that they fought all that day, and when
the night came they slept upon their swords.

Ether 15:21
 21 And on the morrow they fought even until the night came.

Ether 15:22
 22 And when the night came they were drunken with anger, even as
a man who is drunken with wine; and they slept again upon their
swords.

Ether 15:23
 23 And on the morrow they fought again; and when the night came
they had all fallen by the sword save it were fifty and two of
the people of Coriantumr, and sixty and nine of the people of
Shiz.

Ether 15:24
 24 And it came to pass that they slept upon their swords that
night, and on the morrow they fought again, and they contended in
their might with their swords and with their shields, all that
day.

Ether 15:25
 25 And when the night came there were thirty and two of the
people of Shiz, and twenty and seven of the people of Coriantumr.

Ether 15:26
 26 And it came to pass that they ate and slept, and prepared for
death on the morrow. And they were large and mighty men as to
the strength of men.

Ether 15:27
 27 And it came to pass that they fought for the space of three
hours, and they fainted with the loss of blood.

Ether 15:28
 28 And it came to pass that when the men of Coriantumr had
received sufficient strength that they could walk, they were
about to flee for their lives; but behold, Shiz arose, and also
his men, and he swore in his wrath that he would slay Coriantumr
or he would perish by the sword.

Ether 15:29
 29 Wherefore, he did pursue them, and on the morrow he did
overtake them; and they fought again with the sword. And it came
to pass that when they had all fallen by the sword, save it were
Coriantumr and Shiz, behold Shiz had fainted with the loss of
blood.

Ether 15:30
 30 And it came to pass that when Coriantumr had leaned upon his
sword, that he rested a little, he smote off the head of Shiz.

Ether 15:31
 31 And it came to pass that after he had smitten off the head of
Shiz, that Shiz raised upon his hands and fell; and after that he
had struggled for breath, he died.

Ether 15:32
 32 And it came to pass that Coriantumr fell to the earth, and
became as if he had no life.

Ether 15:33
 33 And the Lord spake unto Ether, and said unto him: Go forth.
And he went forth, and beheld that the words of the Lord had all
been fulfilled; and he finished his record; (and the hundredth
part I have not written) and he hid them in a manner that the
people of Limhi did find them.

Ether 15:34
 34 Now the last words which are written by Ether are these:
Whether the Lord will that I be translated, or that I suffer the
will of the Lord in the flesh, it mattereth not, if it so be that
I am saved in the kingdom of God. Amen.



