2 Nephi 33
Chapter 33

2 Nephi 33:1
 1 And now I, Nephi, cannot write all the things which were
taught among my people; neither am I mighty in writing, like unto
speaking; for when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost
the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the
children of men.

2 Nephi 33:2
 2 But behold, there are many that harden their hearts against
the Holy Spirit, that it hath no place in them; wherefore, they
cast many things away which are written and esteem them as things
of naught.

2 Nephi 33:3
 3 But I, Nephi, have written what I have written, and I esteem
it as of great worth, and especially unto my people. For I pray
continually for them by day, and mine eyes water my pillow by
night, because of them; and I cry unto my God in faith, and I
know that he will hear my cry.

2 Nephi 33:4
 4 And I know that the Lord God will consecrate my prayers for
the gain of my people. And the words which I have written in
weakness will be made strong unto them; for it persuadeth them to
do good; it maketh known unto them of their fathers; and it
speaketh of Jesus, and persuadeth them to believe in him, and to
endure to the end, which is life eternal.

2 Nephi 33:5
 5 And it speaketh harshly against sin, according to the
plainness of the truth; wherefore, no man will be angry at the
words which I have written save he shall be of the spirit of the
devil.

2 Nephi 33:6
 6 I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus,
for he hath redeemed my soul from hell.

2 Nephi 33:7
 7 I have charity for my people, and great faith in Christ that I
shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment-seat.

2 Nephi 33:8
 8 I have charity for the Jew--I say Jew, because I mean them
from whence I came.

2 Nephi 33:9
 9 I also have charity for the Gentiles. But behold, for none of
these can I hope except they shall be reconciled unto Christ, and
enter into the narrow gate, and walk in the strait path which
leads to life, and continue in the path until the end of the day
of probation.

2 Nephi 33:10
 10 And now, my beloved brethren, and also Jew, and all ye ends
of the earth, hearken unto these words and believe in Christ; and
if ye believe not in these words believe in Christ. And if ye
shall believe in Christ ye will believe in these words, for they
are the words of Christ, and he hath given them unto me; and they
teach all men that they should do good.

2 Nephi 33:11
 11 And if they are not the words of Christ, judge ye--for Christ
will show unto you, with power and great glory, that they are his
words, at the last day; and you and I shall stand face to face
before his bar; and ye shall know that I have been commanded of
him to write these things, notwithstanding my weakness.

2 Nephi 33:12
 12 And I pray the Father in the name of Christ that many of us,
if not all, may be saved in his kingdom at that great and last
day.

2 Nephi 33:13
 13 And now, my beloved brethren, all those who are of the house
of Israel, and all ye ends of the earth, I speak unto you as the
voice of one crying from the dust: Farewell until that great day
shall come.

2 Nephi 33:14
 14 And you that will not partake of the goodness of God, and
respect the words of the Jews, and also my words, and the words
which shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the Lamb of God,
behold, I bid you an everlasting farewell, for these words shall
condemn you at the last day.

2 Nephi 33:15
 15 For what I seal on earth, shall be brought against you at the
judgment bar; for thus hath the Lord commanded me, and I must
obey. Amen.



