2 Nephi 6
Chapter 6

2 Nephi 6:1
 1 The words of Jacob, the brother of Nephi, which he spake unto
the people of Nephi:

2 Nephi 6:2
 2 Behold, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, having been called of
God, and ordained after the manner of his holy order, and having
been consecrated by my brother Nephi, unto whom ye look as a king
or a protector, and on whom ye depend for safety, behold ye know
that I have spoken unto you exceedingly many things.

2 Nephi 6:3
 3 Nevertheless, I speak unto you again; for I am desirous for
the welfare of your souls. Yea, mine anxiety is great for you;
and ye yourselves know that it ever has been. For I have
exhorted you with all diligence; and I have taught you the words
of my father; and I have spoken unto you concerning all things
which are written, from the creation of the world.

2 Nephi 6:4
 4 And now, behold, I would speak unto you concerning things
which are, and which are to come; wherefore, I will read you the
words of Isaiah. And they are the words which my brother has
desired that I should speak unto you. And I speak unto you for
your sakes, that ye may learn and glorify the name of your God.

2 Nephi 6:5
 5 And now, the words which I shall read are they which Isaiah
spake concerning all the house of Israel; wherefore, they may be
likened unto you, for ye are of the house of Israel. And there
are many things which have been spoken by Isaiah which may be
likened unto you, because ye are of the house of Israel.

2 Nephi 6:6
 6 And now these are the words: Thus saith the Lord God: Behold,
I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my standard
to the people; and they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and
thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.

2 Nephi 6:7
 7 And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy
nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their faces
towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou
shalt know that I am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that
wait for me.

2 Nephi 6:8
 8 And now I, Jacob, would speak somewhat concerning these words.
For behold, the Lord has shown me that those who were at
Jerusalem, from whence we came, have been slain and carried away
captive.

2 Nephi 6:9
 9 Nevertheless, the Lord has shown unto me that they should
return again. And he also has shown unto me that the Lord God,
the Holy One of Israel, should manifest himself unto them in the
flesh; and after he should manifest himself they should scourge
him and crucify him, according to the words of the angel who
spake it unto me.

2 Nephi 6:10
 10 And after they have hardened their hearts and stiffened their
necks against the Holy One of Israel, behold the judgments of the
Holy One of Israel shall come upon them. And the day cometh that
they shall be smitten and afflicted.

2 Nephi 6:11
 11 Wherefore, after they are driven to and fro, for thus saith
the angel, many shall be afflicted in the flesh, and shall not be
suffered to perish, because of the prayers of the faithful; they
shall be scattered, and smitten, and hated; nevertheless, the
Lord will be merciful unto them, that when they shall come to the
knowledge of their Redeemer, they shall be gathered together
again to the lands of their inheritance.

2 Nephi 6:12
 12 And blessed are the Gentiles, they of whom the prophet has
written; for behold, if it so be that they shall repent and fight
not against Zion, and do not unite themselves to that great and
abominable church, they shall be saved; for the Lord God will
fulfil his covenants which he has made unto his children; and for
this cause the prophet has written these things.

2 Nephi 6:13
 13 Wherefore, they that fight against Zion and the covenant
people of the Lord shall lick up the dust of their feet; and the
people of the Lord shall not be ashamed. For the people of the
Lord are they who wait for him; for they still wait for the
coming of the Messiah.

2 Nephi 6:14
 14 And behold, according to the words of the prophet, the
Messiah will set himself again the second time to recover them;
wherefore, he will manifest himself unto them in power and great
glory, unto the destruction of their enemies, when that day
cometh when they shall believe in him; and none will he destroy
that believe in him.

2 Nephi 6:15
 15 And they that believe not in him shall be destroyed, both by
fire, and by tempest, and by earthquakes, and by bloodsheds, and
by pestilence, and by famine. And they shall know that the Lord
is God, the Holy One of Israel.

2 Nephi 6:16
 16 For shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful
captive delivered?

2 Nephi 6:17
 17 But thus saith the Lord: Even the captives of the mighty
shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be
delivered; for the Mighty God shall deliver his covenant people.
For thus saith the Lord: I will contend with them that contendeth
with thee--

2 Nephi 6:18
 18 And I will feed them that oppress thee, with their own flesh;
and they shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet
wine; and all flesh shall know that I the Lord am thy Savior and
thy Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.

