2 Nephi 30
Chapter 30

2 Nephi 30:1
 1 And now behold, my beloved brethren, I would speak unto you;
for I, Nephi, would not suffer that ye should suppose that ye are
more righteous than the Gentiles shall be. For behold, except ye
shall keep the commandments of God ye shall all likewise perish;
and because of the words which have been spoken ye need not
suppose that the Gentiles are utterly destroyed.

2 Nephi 30:2
 2 For behold, I say unto you that as many of the Gentiles as
will repent are the covenant people of the Lord; and as many of
the Jews as will not repent shall be cast off; for the Lord
covenanteth with none save it be with them that repent and
believe in his Son, who is the Holy One of Israel.

2 Nephi 30:3
 3 And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews
and the Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken
shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up
again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the
words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the
remnant of our seed.

2 Nephi 30:4
 4 And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how
that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of
the Jews.

2 Nephi 30:5
 5 And the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them;
wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their
fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had
among their fathers.

2 Nephi 30:6
 6 And then shall they rejoice; for they shall know that it is a
blessing unto them from the hand of God; and their scales of
darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many
generations shall not pass away among them, save they shall be a
pure and delightsome people.

2 Nephi 30:7
 7 And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered
also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to
gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall believe
in Christ shall also become a delightsome people.

2 Nephi 30:8
 8 And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall commence his
work among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, to bring
about the restoration of his people upon the earth.

2 Nephi 30:9
 9 And with righteousness shall the Lord God judge the poor, and
reprove with equity for the meek of the earth. And he shall
smite the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of
his lips shall he slay the wicked.

2 Nephi 30:10
 10 For the time speedily cometh that the Lord God shall cause a
great division among the people, and the wicked will he destroy;
and he will spare his people, yea, even if it so be that he must
destroy the wicked by fire.

2 Nephi 30:11
 11 And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness the girdle of his reins.

2 Nephi 30:12
 12 And then shall the wolf dwell with the lamb; and the leopard
shall lie down with the kid, and the calf, and the young lion,
and the fatling, together; and a little child shall lead them.

2 Nephi 30:13
 13 And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall
lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.

2 Nephi 30:14
 14 And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and
the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's den.

2 Nephi 30:15
 15 They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for
the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the
waters cover the sea.

2 Nephi 30:16
 16 Wherefore, the things of all nations shall be made known;
yea, all things shall be made known unto the children of men.

2 Nephi 30:17
 17 There is nothing which is secret save it shall be revealed;
there is no work of darkness save it shall be made manifest in
the light; and there is nothing which is sealed upon the earth
save it shall be loosed.

2 Nephi 30:18
 18 Wherefore, all things which have been revealed unto the
children of men shall at that day be revealed; and Satan shall
have power over the hearts of the children of men no more, for a
long time. And now, my beloved brethren, I make an end of my
sayings.

