2 Nephi 20
Chapter 20

2 Nephi 20:1
 1 Wo unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write
grievousness which they have prescribed;

2 Nephi 20:2
 2 To turn away the needy from judgment, and to take away the
right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey,
and that they may rob the fatherless!

2 Nephi 20:3
 3 And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the
desolation which shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for
help? and where will ye leave your glory?

2 Nephi 20:4
 4 Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners, and they
shall fall under the slain. For all this his anger is not turned
away, but his hand is stretched out still.

2 Nephi 20:5
 5 O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand
is their indignation.

2 Nephi 20:6
 6 I will send him against a hypocritical nation, and against the
people of my wrath will I give him a charge to take the spoil,
and to take the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the
streets.

2 Nephi 20:7
 7 Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so;
but in his heart it is to destroy and cut off nations not a few.

2 Nephi 20:8
 8 For he saith: Are not my princes altogether kings?

2 Nephi 20:9
 9 Is not Calno as Carchemish? Is not Hamath as Arpad? Is not
Samaria as Damascus?

2 Nephi 20:10
 10 As my hand hath founded the kingdoms of the idols, and whose
graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria;

2 Nephi 20:11
 11 Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do
to Jerusalem and to her idols?

2 Nephi 20:12
 12 Wherefore it shall come to pass that when the Lord hath
performed his whole work upon Mount Zion and upon Jerusalem, I
will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyria,
and the glory of his high looks.

2 Nephi 20:13
 13 For he saith: By the strength of my hand and by my wisdom I
have done these things; for I am prudent; and I have moved the
borders of the people, and have robbed their treasures, and I
have put down the inhabitants like a valiant man;

2 Nephi 20:14
 14 And my hand hath found as a nest the riches of the people;
and as one gathereth eggs that are left have I gathered all the
earth; and there was none that moved the wing, or opened the
mouth, or peeped.

2 Nephi 20:15
 15 Shall the ax boast itself against him that heweth therewith?
Shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? As if
the rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as
if the staff should lift up itself as if it were no wood!

2 Nephi 20:16
 16 Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, send among his
fat ones, leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning
like the burning of a fire.

2 Nephi 20:17
 17 And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy One
for a flame, and shall burn and shall devour his thorns and his
briers in one day;

2 Nephi 20:18
 18 And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his
fruitful field, both soul and body; and they shall be as when a
standard-bearer fainteth.

2 Nephi 20:19
 19 And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a
child may write them.

2 Nephi 20:20
 20 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of
Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no
more again stay upon him that smote them, but shall stay upon the
Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.

2 Nephi 20:21
 21 The remnant shall return, yea, even the remnant of Jacob,
unto the mighty God.

2 Nephi 20:22
 22 For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet a
remnant of them shall return; the consumption decreed shall
overflow with righteousness.

2 Nephi 20:23
 23 For the Lord God of Hosts shall make a consumption, even
determined in all the land.

2 Nephi 20:24
 24 Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of Hosts: O my people that
dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian; he shall smite
thee with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after
the manner of Egypt.

2 Nephi 20:25
 25 For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease,
and mine anger in their destruction.

2 Nephi 20:26
 26 And the Lord of Hosts shall stir up a scourge for him
according to the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb; and as
his rod was upon the sea so shall he lift it up after the manner
of Egypt.

2 Nephi 20:27
 27 And it shall come to pass in that day that his burden shall
be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy
neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing.

2 Nephi 20:28
 28 He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he
hath laid up his carriages.

2 Nephi 20:29
 29 They are gone over the passage; they have taken up their
lodging at Geba; Ramath is afraid; Gibeah of Saul is fled.

2 Nephi 20:30
 30 Lift up the voice, O daughter of Gallim; cause it to be heard
unto Laish, O poor Anathoth.

2 Nephi 20:31
 31 Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather
themselves to flee.

2 Nephi 20:32
 32 As yet shall he remain at Nob that day; he shall shake his
hand against the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of
Jerusalem.

2 Nephi 20:33
 33 Behold, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts shall lop the bough with
terror; and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down; and the
haughty shall be humbled.

2 Nephi 20:34
 34 And he shall cut down the thickets of the forests with iron,
and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.

