2 Nephi 27
Chapter 27

2 Nephi 27:1
 1 But, behold, in the last days, or in the days of the
Gentiles--yea, behold all the nations of the Gentiles and also
the Jews, both those who shall come upon this land and those who
shall be upon other lands, yea, even upon all the lands of the
earth, behold, they will be drunken with iniquity and all manner
of abominations--

2 Nephi 27:2
 2 And when that day shall come they shall be visited of the Lord
of Hosts, with thunder and with earthquake, and with a great
noise, and with storm, and with tempest, and with the flame of
devouring fire.

2 Nephi 27:3
 3 And all the nations that fight against Zion, and that distress
her, shall be as a dream of a night vision; yea, it shall be unto
them, even as unto a hungry man which dreameth, and behold he
eateth but he awaketh and his soul is empty; or like unto a
thirsty man which dreameth, and behold he drinketh but he awaketh
and behold he is faint, and his soul hath appetite; yea, even so
shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against
Mount Zion.

2 Nephi 27:4
 4 For behold, all ye that doeth iniquity, stay yourselves and
wonder, for ye shall cry out, and cry; yea, ye shall be drunken
but not with wine, ye shall stagger but not with strong drink.

2 Nephi 27:5
 5 For behold, the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of
deep sleep. For behold, ye have closed your eyes, and ye have
rejected the prophets; and your rulers, and the seers hath he
covered because of your iniquity.

2 Nephi 27:6
 6 And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall bring forth
unto you the words of a book, and they shall be the words of them
which have slumbered.

2 Nephi 27:7
 7 And behold the book shall be sealed; and in the book shall be
a revelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the
ending thereof.

2 Nephi 27:8
 8 Wherefore, because of the things which are sealed up, the
things which are sealed shall not be delivered in the day of the
wickedness and abominations of the people. Wherefore the book
shall be kept from them.

2 Nephi 27:9
 9 But the book shall be delivered unto a man, and he shall
deliver the words of the book, which are the words of those who
have slumbered in the dust, and he shall deliver these words unto
another;

2 Nephi 27:10
 10 But the words which are sealed he shall not deliver, neither
shall he deliver the book. For the book shall be sealed by the
power of God, and the revelation which was sealed shall be kept
in the book until the own due time of the Lord, that they may
come forth; for behold, they reveal all things from the
foundation of the world unto the end thereof.

2 Nephi 27:11
 11 And the day cometh that the words of the book which were
sealed shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read
by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the
children of men which ever have been among the children of men,
and which ever will be even unto the end of the earth.

2 Nephi 27:12
 12 Wherefore, at that day when the book shall be delivered unto
the man of whom I have spoken, the book shall be hid from the
eyes of the world, that the eyes of none shall behold it save it
be that three witnesses shall behold it, by the power of God,
besides him to whom the book shall be delivered; and they shall
testify to the truth of the book and the things therein.

2 Nephi 27:13
 13 And there is none other which shall view it, save it be a few
according to the will of God, to bear testimony of his word unto
the children of men; for the Lord God hath said that the words of
the faithful should speak as if it were from the dead.

2 Nephi 27:14
 14 Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to bring forth the words
of the book; and in the mouth of as many witnesses as seemeth him
good will he establish his word; and wo be unto him that
rejecteth the word of God!

2 Nephi 27:15
 15 But behold, it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall say
unto him to whom he shall deliver the book: Take these words
which are not sealed and deliver them to another, that he may
show them unto the learned, saying: Read this, I pray thee. And
the learned shall say: Bring hither the book, and I will read
them.

2 Nephi 27:16
 16 And now, because of the glory of the world and to get gain
will they say this, and not for the glory of God.

2 Nephi 27:17
 17 And the man shall say: I cannot bring the book, for it is
sealed.

2 Nephi 27:18
 18 Then shall the learned say: I cannot read it.

2 Nephi 27:19
 19 Wherefore it shall come to pass, that the Lord God will
deliver again the book and the words thereof to him that is not
learned; and the man that is not learned shall say: I am not
learned.

2 Nephi 27:20
 20 Then shall the Lord God say unto him: The learned shall not
read them, for they have rejected them, and I am able to do mine
own work; wherefore thou shalt read the words which I shall give
unto thee.

2 Nephi 27:21
 21 Touch not the things which are sealed, for I will bring them
forth in mine own due time; for I will show unto the children of
men that I am able to do mine own work.

2 Nephi 27:22
 22 Wherefore, when thou hast read the words which I have
commanded thee, and obtained the witnesses which I have promised
unto thee, then shalt thou seal up the book again, and hide it up
unto me, that I may preserve the words which thou hast not read,
until I shall see fit in mine own wisdom to reveal all things
unto the children of men.

2 Nephi 27:23
 23 For behold, I am God; and I am a God of miracles; and I will
show unto the world that I am the same yesterday, today, and
forever; and I work not among the children of men save it be
according to their faith.

2 Nephi 27:24
 24 And again it shall come to pass that the Lord shall say unto
him that shall read the words that shall be delivered him:

2 Nephi 27:25
 25 Forasmuch as this people draw near unto me with their mouth,
and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts
far from me, and their fear towards me is taught by the precepts
of men--

2 Nephi 27:26
 26 Therefore, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this
people, yea, a marvelous work and a wonder, for the wisdom of
their wise and learned shall perish, and the understanding of
their prudent shall be hid.

2 Nephi 27:27
 27 And wo unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from
the Lord! And their works are in the dark; and they say: Who
seeth us, and who knoweth us? And they also say: Surely, your
turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter's
clay. But behold, I will show unto them, saith the Lord of
Hosts, that I know all their works. For shall the work say of
him that made it, he made me not? Or shall the thing framed say
of him that framed it, he had no understanding?

2 Nephi 27:28
 28 But behold, saith the Lord of Hosts: I will show unto the
children of men that it is yet a very little while and Lebanon
shall be turned into a fruitful field; and the fruitful field
shall be esteemed as a forest.

2 Nephi 27:29
 29 And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book,
and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of
darkness.

2 Nephi 27:30
 30 And the meek also shall increase, and their joy shall be in
the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of
Israel.

2 Nephi 27:31
 31 For assuredly as the Lord liveth they shall see that the
terrible one is brought to naught, and the scorner is consumed,
and all that watch for iniquity are cut off;

2 Nephi 27:32
 32 And they that make a man an offender for a word, and lay a
snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and turn aside the just
for a thing of naught.

2 Nephi 27:33
 33 Therefore, thus saith the Lord, who redeemed Abraham,
concerning the house of Jacob: Jacob shall not now be ashamed,
neither shall his face now wax pale.

2 Nephi 27:34
 34 But when he seeth his children, the work of my hands, in the
midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy
One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.

2 Nephi 27:35
 35 They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding,
and they that murmured shall learn doctrine.

