2 Nephi 31
Chapter 31

2 Nephi 31:1
 1 And now I, Nephi, make an end of my prophesying unto you, my
beloved brethren. And I cannot write but a few things, which I
know must surely come to pass; neither can I write but a few of
the words of my brother Jacob.

2 Nephi 31:2
 2 Wherefore, the things which I have written sufficeth me, save
it be a few words which I must speak concerning the doctrine of
Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, according to
the plainness of my prophesying.

2 Nephi 31:3
 3 For my soul delighteth in plainness; for after this manner
doth the Lord God work among the children of men. For the Lord
God giveth light unto the understanding; for he speaketh unto men
according to their language, unto their understanding.

2 Nephi 31:4
 4 Wherefore, I would that ye should remember that I have spoken
unto you concerning that prophet which the Lord showed unto me,
that should baptize the Lamb of God, which should take away the
sins of the world.

2 Nephi 31:5
 5 And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need
to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how
much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even
by water!

2 Nephi 31:6
 6 And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the
Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by
water?

2 Nephi 31:7
 7 Know ye not that he was holy? But notwithstanding he being
holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the
flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto
the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his
commandments.

2 Nephi 31:8
 8 Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost
descended upon him in the form of a dove.

2 Nephi 31:9
 9 And again, it showeth unto the children of men the
straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by
which they should enter, he having set the example before them.

2 Nephi 31:10
 10 And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall
be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?

2 Nephi 31:11
 11 And the Father said: Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in
the name of my Beloved Son.

2 Nephi 31:12
 12 And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that
is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy
Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things
which ye have seen me do.

2 Nephi 31:13
 13 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I know that if ye shall
follow the Son, with full purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy
and no deception before God, but with real intent, repenting of
your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take
upon you the name of Christ, by baptism--yea, by following your
Lord and your Savior down into the water, according to his word,
behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh
the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then can ye speak
with the tongue of angels, and shout praises unto the Holy One of
Israel.

2 Nephi 31:14
 14 But, behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the voice of the
Son unto me, saying: After ye have repented of your sins, and
witnessed unto the Father that ye are willing to keep my
commandments, by the baptism of water, and have received the
baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost, and can speak with a new
tongue, yea, even with the tongue of angels, and after this
should deny me, it would have been better for you that ye had not
known me.

2 Nephi 31:15
 15 And I heard a voice from the Father, saying: Yea, the words
of my Beloved are true and faithful. He that endureth to the
end, the same shall be saved.

2 Nephi 31:16
 16 And now, my beloved brethren, I know by this that unless a
man shall endure to the end, in following the example of the Son
of the living God, he cannot be saved.

2 Nephi 31:17
 17 Wherefore, do the things which I have told you I have seen
that your Lord and your Redeemer should do; for, for this cause
have they been shown unto me, that ye might know the gate by
which ye should enter. For the gate by which ye should enter is
repentance and baptism by water; and then cometh a remission of
your sins by fire and by the Holy Ghost.

2 Nephi 31:18
 18 And then are ye in this strait and narrow path which leads to
eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the gate; ye have done
according to the commandments of the Father and the Son; and ye
have received the Holy Ghost, which witnesses of the Father and
the Son, unto the fulfilling of the promise which he hath made,
that if ye entered in by the way ye should receive.

2 Nephi 31:19
 19 And now, my beloved brethren, after ye have gotten into this
strait and narrow path, I would ask if all is done? Behold, I
say unto you, Nay; for ye have not come thus far save it were by
the word of Christ with unshaken faith in him, relying wholly
upon the merits of him who is mighty to save.

2 Nephi 31:20
 20 Wherefore, ye must press forward with a steadfastness in
Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God
and of all men. Wherefore, if ye shall press forward, feasting
upon the word of Christ, and endure to the end, behold, thus
saith the Father: Ye shall have eternal life.

2 Nephi 31:21
 21 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; and
there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man
can be saved in the kingdom of God. And now, behold, this is the
doctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is one God, without
end. Amen.

