2 Nephi 16
Chapter 16

2 Nephi 16:1
 1 In the year that king Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting
upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the
temple.

2 Nephi 16:2
 2 Above it stood the seraphim; each one had six wings; with
twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet,
and with twain he did fly.

2 Nephi 16:3
 3 And one cried unto another, and said: Holy, holy, holy, is the
Lord of Hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory.

2 Nephi 16:4
 4 And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that
cried, and the house was filled with smoke.

2 Nephi 16:5
 5 Then said I: Wo is unto me! for I am undone; because I am a
man of unclean lips; and I dwell in the midst of a people of
unclean lips; for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of
Hosts.

2 Nephi 16:6
 6 Then flew one of the seraphim unto me, having a live coal in
his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar;

2 Nephi 16:7
 7 And he laid it upon my mouth, and said: Lo, this has touched
thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.

2 Nephi 16:8
 8 Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying: Whom shall I send,
and who will go for us? Then I said: Here am I; send me.

2 Nephi 16:9
 9 And he said: Go and tell this people--Hear ye indeed, but they
understood not; and see ye indeed, but they perceived not.

2 Nephi 16:10
 10 Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy,
and shut their eyes--lest they see with their eyes, and hear with
their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted and
be healed.

2 Nephi 16:11
 11 Then said I: Lord, how long? And he said: Until the cities
be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the
land be utterly desolate;

2 Nephi 16:12
 12 And the Lord have removed men far away, for there shall be a
great forsaking in the midst of the land.

2 Nephi 16:13
 13 But yet there shall be a tenth, and they shall return, and
shall be eaten, as a teil-tree, and as an oak whose substance is
in them when they cast their leaves; so the holy seed shall be
the substance thereof.

