Mosiah 23
Chapter 23

Mosiah 23:1
 1 Now Alma, having been warned of the Lord that the armies of
king Noah would come upon them, and having made it known to his
people, therefore they gathered together their flocks, and took
of their grain, and departed into the wilderness before the
armies of king Noah.

Mosiah 23:2
 2 And the Lord did strengthen them, that the people of king Noah
could not overtake them to destroy them.

Mosiah 23:3
 3 And they fled eight days' journey into the wilderness.

Mosiah 23:4
 4 And they came to a land, yea, even a very beautiful and
pleasant land, a land of pure water.

Mosiah 23:5
 5 And they pitched their tents, and began to till the ground,
and began to build buildings; yea, they were industrious, and did
labor exceedingly.

Mosiah 23:6
 6 And the people were desirous that Alma should be their king,
for he was beloved by his people.

Mosiah 23:7
 7 But he said unto them: Behold, it is not expedient that we
should have a king; for thus saith the Lord: Ye shall not esteem
one flesh above another, or one man shall not think himself above
another; therefore I say unto you it is not expedient that ye
should have a king.

Mosiah 23:8
 8 Nevertheless, if it were possible that ye could always have
just men to be your kings it would be well for you to have a
king.

Mosiah 23:9
 9 But remember the iniquity of king Noah and his priests; and I
myself was caught in a snare, and did many things which were
abominable in the sight of the Lord, which caused me sore
repentance;

Mosiah 23:10
 10 Nevertheless, after much tribulation, the Lord did hear my
cries, and did answer my prayers, and has made me an instrument
in his hands in bringing so many of you to a knowledge of his
truth.

Mosiah 23:11
 11 Nevertheless, in this I do not glory, for I am unworthy to
glory of myself.

Mosiah 23:12
 12 And now I say unto you, ye have been oppressed by king Noah,
and have been in bondage to him and his priests, and have been
brought into iniquity by them; therefore ye were bound with the
bands of iniquity.

Mosiah 23:13
 13 And now as ye have been delivered by the power of God out of
these bonds; yea, even out of the hands of king Noah and his
people, and also from the bonds of iniquity, even so I desire
that ye should stand fast in this liberty wherewith ye have been
made free, and that ye trust no man to be a king over you.

Mosiah 23:14
 14 And also trust no one to be your teacher nor your minister,
except he be a man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his
commandments.

Mosiah 23:15
 15 Thus did Alma teach his people, that every man should love
his neighbor as himself, that there should be no contention among
them.

Mosiah 23:16
 16 And now, Alma was their high priest, he being the founder of
their church.

Mosiah 23:17
 17 And it came to pass that none received authority to preach or
to teach except it were by him from God. Therefore he
consecrated all their priests and all their teachers; and none
were consecrated except they were just men.

Mosiah 23:18
 18 Therefore they did watch over their people, and did nourish
them with things pertaining to righteousness.

Mosiah 23:19
 19 And it came to pass that they began to prosper exceedingly in
the land; and they called the land Helam.

Mosiah 23:20
 20 And it came to pass that they did multiply and prosper
exceedingly in the land of Helam; and they built a city, which
they called the city of Helam.

Mosiah 23:21
 21 Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea,
he trieth their patience and their faith.

Mosiah 23:22
 22 Nevertheless--whosoever putteth his trust in him the same
shall be lifted up at the last day. Yea, and thus it was with
this people.

Mosiah 23:23
 23 For behold, I will show unto you that they were brought into
bondage, and none could deliver them but the Lord their God, yea,
even the God of Abraham and Isaac and of Jacob.

Mosiah 23:24
 24 And it came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did show
forth his mighty power unto them, and great were their
rejoicings.

Mosiah 23:25
 25 For behold, it came to pass that while they were in the land
of Helam, yea, in the city of Helam, while tilling the land round
about, behold an army of the Lamanites was in the borders of the
land.

Mosiah 23:26
 26 Now it came to pass that the brethren of Alma fled from their
fields, and gathered themselves together in the city of Helam;
and they were much frightened because of the appearance of the
Lamanites.

Mosiah 23:27
 27 But Alma went forth and stood among them, and exhorted them
that they should not be frightened, but that they should remember
the Lord their God and he would deliver them.

Mosiah 23:28
 28 Therefore they hushed their fears, and began to cry unto the
Lord that he would soften the hearts of the Lamanites, that they
would spare them, and their wives, and their children.

Mosiah 23:29
 29 And it came to pass the the Lord did soften the hearts of the
Lamanites. And Alma and his brethren went forth and delivered
themselves up into their hands; and the Lamanites took possession
of the land of Helam.

Mosiah 23:30
 30 Now the armies of the Lamanites, which had followed after the
people of king Limhi, had been lost in the wilderness for many
days.

Mosiah 23:31
 31 And behold, they had found those priests of king Noah, in a
place which they called Amulon; and they had begun to possess the
land of Amulon and had begun to till the ground.

Mosiah 23:32
 32 Now the name of the leader of those priests was Amulon.

Mosiah 23:33
 33 And it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites;
and he also sent forth their wives, who were the daughters of the
Lamanites, to plead with their brethren, that they should not
destroy their husbands.

Mosiah 23:34
 34 And the Lamanites had compassion on Amulon and his brethren,
and did not destroy them, because of their wives.

Mosiah 23:35
 35 And Amulon and his brethren did join the Lamanites, and they
were traveling in the wilderness in search of the land of Nephi
when they discovered the land of Helam, which was possessed by
Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:36
 36 And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Alma and
his brethren, that if they would show them the way which led to
the land of Nephi that they would grant unto them their lives and
their liberty.

Mosiah 23:37
 37 But after Alma had shown them the way that led to the land of
Nephi the Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set
guards round about the land of Helam, over Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:38
 38 And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi; and a
part of them returned to the land of Helam, and also brought with
them the wives and the children of the guards who had been left
in the land.

Mosiah 23:39
 39 And the king of the Lamanites had granted unto Amulon that he
should be a king and a ruler over his people, who were in the
land of Helam; nevertheless he should have no power to do
anything contrary to the will of the king of the Lamanites.

