Alma 59
Chapter 59

Alma 59:1
 1 Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, after Moroni had received and
had read Helaman's epistle, he was exceedingly rejoiced because
of the welfare, yea, the exceeding success which Helaman had had,
in obtaining those lands which were lost.

Alma 59:2
 2 Yea, and he did make it known unto all his people, in all the
land round about in that part where he was, that they might
rejoice also.

Alma 59:3
 3 And it came to pass that he immediately sent an epistle to
Pahoran, desiring that he should cause men to be gathered
together to strengthen Helaman, or the armies of Helaman,
insomuch that he might with ease maintain that part of the land
which he had been so miraculously prospered in regaining.

Alma 59:4
 4 And it came to pass when Moroni had sent this epistle to the
land of Zarahemla, he began again to lay a plan that he might
obtain the remainder of those possessions and cities which the
Lamanites had taken from them.

Alma 59:5
 5 And it came to pass that while Moroni was thus making
preparations to go against the Lamanites to battle, behold, the
people of Nephihah, who were gathered together from the city of
Moroni and the city of Lehi and the city of Morianton, were
attacked by the Lamanites.

Alma 59:6
 6 Yea, even those who had been compelled to flee from the land
of Manti, and from the land round about, had come over and joined
the Lamanites in this part of the land.

Alma 59:7
 7 And thus being exceedingly numerous, yea, and receiving
strength from day to day, by the command of Ammoron they came
forth against the people of Nephihah, and they did begin to slay
them with an exceedingly great slaughter.

Alma 59:8
 8 And their armies were so numerous that the remainder of the
people of Nephihah were obliged to flee before them; and they
came even and joined the army of Moroni.

Alma 59:9
 9 And now as Moroni had supposed that there should be men sent
to the city Nephihah, to the assistance of the people to maintain
that city, and knowing that it was easier to keep the city from
falling into the hands of the Lamanites than to retake it from
them, he supposed that they would easily maintain that city.

Alma 59:10
 10 Therefore he retained all his force to maintain those places
which he had recovered.

Alma 59:11
 11 And now, when Moroni saw that the city of Nephihah was lost
he was exceedingly sorrowful, and began to doubt, because of the
wickedness of the people, whether they should not fall into the
hands of their brethren.

Alma 59:12
 12 Now this was the case with all his chief captains. They
doubted and marveled also because of the wickedness of the
people, and this because of the success of the Lamanites over
them.

Alma 59:13
 13 And it came to pass that Moroni was angry with the
government, because of their indifference concerning the freedom
of their country.

