Alma 45
Chapter 45

Alma 45:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that the people of Nephi were
exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord had again delivered them
out of the hands of their enemies; therefore they gave thanks
unto the Lord their God; yea, and they did fast much and pray
much, and they did worship God with exceedingly great joy.

Alma 45:2
 2 And it came to pass in the nineteenth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma came unto his son
Helaman and said unto him: Believest thou the words which I spake
unto thee concerning those records which have been kept?

Alma 45:3
 3 And Helaman said unto him: Yea, I believe.

Alma 45:4
 4 And Alma said again: Believest thou in Jesus Christ, who shall
come?

Alma 45:5
 5 And he said: Yea, I believe all the words which thou hast
spoken.

Alma 45:6
 6 And Alma said unto him again: Will ye keep my commandments?

Alma 45:7
 7 And he said: Yea, I will keep thy commandments with all my
heart.

Alma 45:8
 8 Then Alma said unto him: Blessed art thou; and the Lord shall
prosper thee in this land.

Alma 45:9
 9 But behold, I have somewhat to prophesy unto thee; but what I
prophesy unto thee ye shall not make known; yea, what I prophesy
unto thee shall not be made known, even until the prophecy is
fulfilled; therefore write the words which I shall say.

Alma 45:10
 10 And these are the words: Behold, I perceive that this very
people, the Nephites, according to the spirit of revelation which
is in me, in four hundred years from the time that Jesus Christ
shall manifest himself unto them, shall dwindle in unbelief.

Alma 45:11
 11 Yea, and then shall they see wars and pestilences, yea,
famines and bloodshed, even until the people of Nephi shall
become extinct--

Alma 45:12
 12 Yea, and this because they shall dwindle in unbelief and fall
into the works of darkness, and lasciviousness, and all manner of
iniquities; yea, I say unto you, that because they shall sin
against so great light and knowledge, yea, I say unto you, that
from that day, even the fourth generation shall not all pass away
before this great iniquity shall come.

Alma 45:13
 13 And when that great day cometh, behold, the time very soon
cometh that those who are now, or the seed of those who are now
numbered among the people of Nephi, shall no more be numbered
among the people of Nephi.

Alma 45:14
 14 But whosoever remaineth, and is not destroyed in that great
and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the Lamanites, and
shall become like unto them, all, save it be a few who shall be
called the disciples of the Lord; and them shall the Lamanites
pursue even until they shall become extinct. And now, because of
iniquity, this prophecy shall be fulfilled.

Alma 45:15
 15 And now it came to pass that after Alma had said these things
to Helaman, he blessed him, and also his other sons; and he also
blessed the earth for the righteous' sake.

Alma 45:16
 16 And he said: Thus saith the Lord God--Cursed shall be the
land, yea, this land, unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and
people, unto destruction, which do wickedly, when they are fully
ripe; and as I have said so shall it be; for this is the cursing
and the blessing of God upon the land, for the Lord cannot look
upon sin with the least degree of allowance.

Alma 45:17
 17 And now, when Alma had said these words he blessed the
church, yea, all those who should stand fast in the faith from
that time henceforth.

Alma 45:18
 18 And when Alma had done this he departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, as if to go into the land of Melek. And it came to
pass that he was never heard of more; as to his death or burial
we know not of.

Alma 45:19
 19 Behold, this we know, that he was a righteous man; and the
saying went abroad in the church that he was taken up by the
Spirit, or buried by the hand of the Lord, even as Moses. But
behold, the scriptures saith the Lord took Moses unto himself;
and we suppose that he has also received Alma in the spirit, unto
himself; therefore, for this cause we know nothing concerning his
death and burial.

Alma 45:20
 20 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the nineteenth
year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that
Helaman went forth among the people to declare the word unto
them.

Alma 45:21
 21 For behold, because of their wars with the Lamanites and the
many little dissensions and disturbances which had been among the
people, it became expedient that the word of God should be
declared among them, yea, and that a regulation should be made
throughout the church.

Alma 45:22
 22 Therefore, Helaman and his brethren went forth to establish
the church again in all the land, yea, in every city throughout
all the land which was possessed by the people of Nephi. And it
came to pass that they did appoint priests and teachers
throughout all the land, over all the churches.

Alma 45:23
 23 And now it came to pass that after Helaman and his brethren
had appointed priests and teachers over the churches that there
arose a dissension among them, and they would not give heed to
the words of Helaman and his brethren;

Alma 45:24
 24 But they grew proud, being lifted up in their hearts, because
of their exceedingly great riches; therefore they grew rich in
their own eyes, and would not give heed to their words, to walk
uprightly before God.

