Alma 39
Chapter 39

Alma 39:1
 1 And now, my son, I have somewhat more to say unto thee than
what I said unto thy brother; for behold, have ye not observed
the steadiness of thy brother, his faithfulness, and his
diligence in keeping the commandments of God? Behold, has he not
set a good example for thee?

Alma 39:2
 2 For thou didst not give so much heed unto my words as did thy
brother, among the people of the Zoramites. Now this is what I
have against thee; thou didst go on unto boasting in thy strength
and thy wisdom.

Alma 39:3
 3 And this is not all, my son. Thou didst do that which was
grievous unto me; for thou didst forsake the ministry, and did go
over into the land of Siron, among the borders of the Lamanites,
after the harlot Isabel.

Alma 39:4
 4 Yea, she did steal away the hearts of many; but this was no
excuse for thee, my son. Thou shouldst have tended to the
ministry wherewith thou wast entrusted.

Alma 39:5
 5 Know ye not, my son, that these things are an abomination in
the sight of the Lord; yea, most abominable above all sins save
it be the shedding of innocent blood or denying the Holy Ghost?

Alma 39:6
 6 For behold, if ye deny the Holy Ghost when it once has had
place in you, and ye know that ye deny it, behold, this is a sin
which is unpardonable; yea, and whosoever murdereth against the
light and knowledge of God, it is not easy for him to obtain
forgiveness; yea, I say unto you, my son, that it is not easy for
him to obtain a forgiveness.

Alma 39:7
 7 And now, my son, I would to God that ye had not been guilty of
so great a crime. I would not dwell upon your crimes, to harrow
up your soul, if it were not for your good.

Alma 39:8
 8 But behold, ye cannot hide your crimes from God; and except ye
repent they will stand as a testimony against you at the last
day.

Alma 39:9
 9 Now my son, I would that ye should repent and forsake your
sins, and go no more after the lusts of your eyes, but cross
yourself in all these things; for except ye do this ye can in
nowise inherit the kingdom of God. Oh, remember, and take it
upon you, and cross yourself in these things.

Alma 39:10
 10 And I command you to take it upon you to counsel with your
elder brothers in your undertakings; for behold, thou art in thy
youth, and ye stand in need to be nourished by your brothers.
And give heed to their counsel.

Alma 39:11
 11 Suffer not yourself to be led away by any vain or foolish
thing; suffer not the devil to lead away your heart again after
those wicked harlots. Behold, O my son, how great iniquity ye
brought upon the Zoramites; for when they saw your conduct they
would not believe in my words.

Alma 39:12
 12 And now the Spirit of the Lord doth say unto me: Command thy
children to do good, lest they lead away the hearts of many
people to destruction; therefore I command you, my son, in the
fear of God, that ye refrain from your iniquities;

Alma 39:13
 13 That ye turn to the Lord with all your mind, might, and
strength; that ye lead away the hearts of no more to do wickedly;
but rather return unto them, and acknowledge your faults and that
wrong which ye have done.

Alma 39:14
 14 Seek not after riches nor the vain things of this world; for
behold, you cannot carry them with you.

Alma 39:15
 15 And now, my son, I would say somewhat unto you concerning the
coming of Christ. Behold, I say unto you, that it is he that
surely shall come to take away the sins of the world; yea, he
cometh to declare glad tidings of salvation unto his people.

Alma 39:16
 16 And now, my son, this was the ministry unto which ye were
called, to declare these glad tidings unto this people to prepare
their minds; or rather that salvation might come unto them, that
they may prepare the minds of their children to hear the word at
the time of his coming.

Alma 39:17
 17 And now I will ease your mind somewhat on this subject.
Behold, you marvel why these things should be known so long
beforehand. Behold, I say unto you, is not a soul at this time
as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of his coming?

Alma 39:18
 18 Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should be
made known unto this people as well as unto their children?

Alma 39:19
 19 Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send his angel
to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as
after the time of his coming?

