Alma 20
Chapter 20

Alma 20:1
 1 And it came to pass that when they had established a church in
that land, that king Lamoni desired that Ammon should go with him
to the land of Nephi, that he might show him unto his father.

Alma 20:2
 2 And the voice of the Lord came to Ammon saying: Thou shalt not
go up to the land of Nephi, for behold, the king will seek thy
life; but thou shalt go to the land of Middoni; for behold, thy
brother Aaron, and also Muloki and Ammah are in prison.

Alma 20:3
 3 Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he said
unto Lamoni: Behold, my brother and brethren are in prison at
Middoni, and I go that I may deliver them.

Alma 20:4
 4 Now Lamoni said unto Ammon: I know, in the strength of the
Lord thou canst do all things. But behold, I will go with thee
to the land of Middoni; for the king of the land of Middoni,
whose name is Antiomno, is a friend unto me; therefore I go to
the land of Middoni, that I may flatter the king of the land, and
he will cast thy brethren out of prison. Now Lamoni said unto
him: Who told thee that thy brethren were in prison?

Alma 20:5
 5 And Ammon said unto him: No one hath told me, save it be God;
and he said unto me--Go and deliver thy brethren, for they are in
prison in the land of Middoni.

Alma 20:6
 6 Now when Lamoni had heard this he caused that his servants
should make ready his horses and his chariots.

Alma 20:7
 7 And he said unto Ammon: Come, I will go with thee down to the
land of Middoni, and there I will plead with the king that he
will cast thy brethren out of prison.

Alma 20:8
 8 And it came to pass that as Ammon and Lamoni were journeying
thither, they met the father of Lamoni, who was king over all the
land.

Alma 20:9
 9 And behold, the father of Lamoni said unto him: Why did ye not
come to the feast on that great day when I made a feast unto my
sons, and unto my people?

Alma 20:10
 10 And he also said: Whither art thou going with this Nephite,
who is one of the children of a liar?

Alma 20:11
 11 And it came to pass that Lamoni rehearsed unto him whither he
was going, for he feared to offend him.

Alma 20:12
 12 And he also told him all the cause of his tarrying in his own
kingdom, that he did not go unto his father to the feast which he
had prepared.

Alma 20:13
 13 And now when Lamoni had rehearsed unto him all these things,
behold, to his astonishment, his father was angry with him, and
said: Lamoni, thou art going to deliver these Nephites, who are
sons of a liar. Behold, he robbed our fathers; and now his
children are also come amongst us that they may, by their cunning
and their lyings, deceive us, that they again may rob us of our
property.

Alma 20:14
 14 Now the father of Lamoni commanded him that he should slay
Ammon with the sword. And he also commanded him that he should
not go to the land of Middoni, but that he should return with him
to the land of Ishmael.

Alma 20:15
 15 But Lamoni said unto him: I will not slay Ammon, neither will
I return to the land of Ishmael, but I go to the land of Middoni
that I may release the brethren of Ammon, for I know that they
are just men and holy prophets of the true God.

Alma 20:16
 16 Now when his father had heard these words, he was angry with
him, and he drew his sword that he might smite him to the earth.

Alma 20:17
 17 But Ammon stood forth and said unto him: Behold, thou shalt
not slay thy son; nevertheless, it were better that he should
fall than thee, for behold, he has repented of his sins; but if
thou shouldst fall at this time, in thine anger, thy soul could
not be saved.

Alma 20:18
 18 And again, it is expedient that thou shouldst forbear; for if
thou shouldst slay thy son, he being an innocent man, his blood
would cry from the ground to the Lord his God, for vengeance to
come upon thee; and perhaps thou wouldst lose thy soul.

Alma 20:19
 19 Now when Ammon had said these words unto him, he answered
him, saying: I know that if I should slay my son, that I should
shed innocent blood; for it is thou that hast sought to destroy
him.

Alma 20:20
 20 And he stretched forth his hand to slay Ammon. But Ammon
withstood his blows, and also smote his arm that he could not use
it.

Alma 20:21
 21 Now when the king saw that Ammon could slay him, he began to
plead with Ammon that he would spare his life.

Alma 20:22
 22 But Ammon raised his sword, and said unto him: Behold, I will
smite thee except thou wilt grant unto me that my brethren may be
cast out of prison.

Alma 20:23
 23 Now the king, fearing he should lose his life, said: If thou
wilt spare me I will grant unto thee whatsoever thou wilt ask,
even to half of the kingdom.

Alma 20:24
 24 Now when Ammon saw that he had wrought upon the old king
according to his desire, he said unto him: If thou wilt grant
that my brethren may be cast out of prison, and also that Lamoni
may retain his kingdom, and that ye be not displeased with him,
but grant that he may do according to his own desires in
whatsoever thing he thinketh, then will I spare thee; otherwise I
will smite thee to the earth.

Alma 20:25
 25 Now when Ammon had said these words, the king began to
rejoice because of his life.

Alma 20:26
 26 And when he saw that Ammon had no desire to destroy him, and
when he also saw the great love he had for his son Lamoni, he was
astonished exceedingly, and said: Because this is all that thou
hast desired, that I would release thy brethren, and suffer that
my son Lamoni should retain his kingdom, behold, I will grant
unto you that my son may retain his kingdom from this time and
forever; and I will govern him no more--

Alma 20:27
 27 And I will also grant unto thee that thy brethren may be cast
out of prison, and thou and thy brethren may come unto me, in my
kingdom; for I shall greatly desire to see thee. For the king
was greatly astonished at the words which he had spoken, and also
at the words which had been spoken by his son Lamoni, therefore
he was desirous to learn them.

Alma 20:28
 28 And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni proceeded on their
journey towards the land of Middoni. And Lamoni found favor in
the eyes of the king of the land; therefore the brethren of Ammon
were brought forth out of prison.

Alma 20:29
 29 And when Ammon did meet them he was exceedingly sorrowful,
for behold they were naked, and their skins were worn exceedingly
because of being bound with strong cords. And they also had
suffered hunger, thirst, and all kinds of afflictions;
nevertheless they were patient in all their sufferings.

Alma 20:30
 30 And, as it happened, it was their lot to have fallen into the
hands of a more hardened and a more stiffnecked people; therefore
they would not hearken unto their words, and they had cast them
out, and had smitten them, and had driven them from house to
house, and from place to place, even until they had arrived in
the land of Middoni; and there they were taken and cast into
prison, and bound with strong cords, and kept in prison for many
days, and were delivered by Lamoni and Ammon.

