Alma 26
Chapter 26

Alma 26:1
 1 And now, these are the words of Ammon to his brethren, which
say thus: My brothers and my brethren, behold I say unto you, how
great reason have we to rejoice; for could we have supposed when
we started from the land of Zarahemla that God would have granted
unto us such great blessings?

Alma 26:2
 2 And now, I ask, what great blessings has he bestowed upon us?
Can ye tell?

Alma 26:3
 3 Behold, I answer for you; for our brethren, the Lamanites,
were in darkness, yea, even in the darkest abyss, but behold, how
many of them are brought to behold the marvelous light of God!
And this is the blessing which hath been bestowed upon us, that
we have been made instruments in the hands of God to bring about
this great work.

Alma 26:4
 4 Behold, thousands of them do rejoice, and have been brought
into the fold of God.

Alma 26:5
 5 Behold, the field was ripe, and blessed are ye, for ye did
thrust in the sickle, and did reap with your might, yea, all the
day long did ye labor; and behold the number of your sheaves!
And they shall be gathered into the garners, that they are not
wasted.

Alma 26:6
 6 Yea, they shall not be beaten down by the storm at the last
day; yea, neither shall they be harrowed up by the whirlwinds;
but when the storm cometh they shall be gathered together in
their place, that the storm cannot penetrate to them; yea,
neither shall they be driven with fierce winds whithersoever the
enemy listeth to carry them.

Alma 26:7
 7 But behold, they are in the hands of the Lord of the harvest,
and they are his; and he will raise them up at the last day.

Alma 26:8
 8 Blessed be the name of our God; let us sing to his praise,
yea, let us give thanks to his holy name, for he doth work
righteousness forever.

Alma 26:9
 9 For if we had not come up out of the land of Zarahemla, these
our dearly beloved brethren, who have so dearly beloved us, would
still have been racked with hatred against us, yea, and they
would also have been strangers to God.

Alma 26:10
 10 And it came to pass that when Ammon had said these words, his
brother Aaron rebuked him, saying: Ammon, I fear that thy joy
doth carry thee away unto boasting.

Alma 26:11
 11 But Ammon said unto him: I do not boast in my own strength,
nor in my own wisdom; but behold, my joy is full, yea, my heart
is brim with joy, and I will rejoice in my God.

Alma 26:12
 12 Yea, I know that I am nothing; as to my strength I am weak;
therefore I will not boast of myself, but I will boast of my God,
for in his strength I can do all things; yea, behold, many mighty
miracles we have wrought in this land, for which we will praise
his name forever.

Alma 26:13
 13 Behold, how many thousands of our brethren has he loosed from
the pains of hell; and they are brought to sing redeeming love,
and this because of the power of his word which is in us,
therefore have we not great reason to rejoice?

Alma 26:14
 14 Yea, we have reason to praise him forever, for he is the Most
High God, and has loosed our brethren from the chains of hell.

Alma 26:15
 15 Yea, they were encircled about with everlasting darkness and
destruction; but behold, he has brought them into his everlasting
light, yea, into everlasting salvation; and they are encircled
about with the matchless bounty of his love; yea, and we have
been instruments in his hands of doing this great and marvelous
work.

Alma 26:16
 16 Therefore, let us glory, yea, we will glory in the Lord; yea,
we will rejoice, for our joy is full; yea, we will praise our God
forever. Behold, who can glory too much in the Lord? Yea, who
can say too much of his great power, and of his mercy, and of his
long-suffering towards the children of men? Behold, I say unto
you, I cannot say the smallest part which I feel.

Alma 26:17
 17 Who could have supposed that our God would have been so
merciful as to have snatched us from our awful, sinful, and
polluted state?

Alma 26:18
 18 Behold, we went forth even in wrath, with mighty threatenings
to destroy his church.

Alma 26:19
 19 Oh then, why did he not consign us to an awful destruction,
yea, why did he not let the sword of his justice fall upon us,
and doom us to eternal despair?

Alma 26:20
 20 Oh, my soul, almost as it were, fleeth at the thought.
Behold, he did not exercise his justice upon us, but in his great
mercy hath brought us over that everlasting gulf of death and
misery, even to the salvation of our souls.

Alma 26:21
 21 And now behold, my brethren, what natural man is there that
knoweth these things? I say unto you, there is none that knoweth
these things, save it be the penitent.

Alma 26:22
 22 Yea, he that repenteth and exerciseth faith, and bringeth
forth good works, and prayeth continually without ceasing--unto
such it is given to know the mysteries of God; yea, unto such it
shall be given to reveal things which never have been revealed;
yea, and it shall be given unto such to bring thousands of souls
to repentance, even as it has been given unto us to bring these
our brethren to repentance.

Alma 26:23
 23 Now do ye remember, my brethren, that we said unto our
brethren in the land of Zarahemla, we go up to the land of Nephi,
to preach unto our brethren, the Lamanites, and they laughed us
to scorn?

Alma 26:24
 24 For they said unto us: Do ye suppose that ye can bring the
Lamanites to the knowledge of the truth? Do ye suppose that ye
can convince the Lamanites of the incorrectness of the traditions
of their fathers, as stiffnecked a people as they are; whose
hearts delight in the shedding of blood; whose days have been
spent in the grossest iniquity; whose ways have been the ways of
a transgressor from the beginning? Now my brethren, ye remember
that this was their language.

Alma 26:25
 25 And moreover they did say: Let us take up arms against them,
that we destroy them and their iniquity out of the land, lest
they overrun us and destroy us.

Alma 26:26
 26 But behold, my beloved brethren, we came into the wilderness
not with the intent to destroy our brethren, but with the intent
that perhaps we might save some few of their souls.

Alma 26:27
 27 Now when our hearts were depressed, and we were about to turn
back, behold, the Lord comforted us, and said: Go amongst thy
brethren, the Lamanites, and bear with patience thine
afflictions, and I will give unto you success.

Alma 26:28
 28 And now behold, we have come, and been forth amongst them;
and we have been patient in our sufferings, and we have suffered
every privation; yea, we have traveled from house to house,
relying upon the mercies of the world--not upon the mercies of
the world alone but upon the mercies of God.

Alma 26:29
 29 And we have entered into their houses and taught them, and we
have taught them in their streets; yea, and we have taught them
upon their hills; and we have also entered into their temples and
their synagogues and taught them; and we have been cast out, and
mocked, and spit upon, and smote upon our cheeks; and we have
been stoned, and taken and bound with strong cords, and cast into
prison; and through the power and wisdom of God we have been
delivered again.

Alma 26:30
 30 And we have suffered all manner of afflictions, and all this,
that perhaps we might be the means of saving some soul; and we
supposed that our joy would be full if perhaps we could be the
means of saving some.

Alma 26:31
 31 Now behold, we can look forth and see the fruits of our
labors; and are they few? I say unto you, Nay, they are many;
yea, and we can witness of their sincerity, because of their love
towards their brethren and also towards us.

Alma 26:32
 32 For behold, they had rather sacrifice their lives than even
to take the life of their enemy; and they have buried their
weapons of war deep in the earth, because of their love towards
their brethren.

Alma 26:33
 33 And now behold I say unto you, has there been so great love
in all the land? Behold, I say unto you, Nay, there has not,
even among the Nephites.

Alma 26:34
 34 For behold, they would take up arms against their brethren;
they would not suffer themselves to be slain. But behold how
many of these have laid down their lives; and we know that they
have gone to their God, because of their love and of their hatred
to sin.

Alma 26:35
 35 Now have we not reason to rejoice? Yea, I say unto you,
there never were men that had so great reason to rejoice as we,
since the world began; yea, and my joy is carried away, even unto
boasting in my God; for he has all power, all wisdom, and all
understanding; he comprehendeth all things, and he is a merciful
Being, even unto salvation, to those who will repent and believe
on his name.

Alma 26:36
 36 Now if this is boasting, even so will I boast; for this is my
life and my light, my joy and my salvation, and my redemption
from everlasting wo. Yea, blessed is the name of my God, who has
been mindful of this people, who are a branch of the tree of
Israel, and has been lost from its body in a strange land; yea, I
say, blessed be the name of my God, who has been mindful of us,
wanderers in a strange land.

Alma 26:37
 37 Now my brethren, we see that God is mindful of every people,
whatsoever land they may be in; yea, he numbereth his people, and
his bowels of mercy are over all the earth. Now this is my joy,
and my great thanksgiving; yea, and I will give thanks unto my
God forever. Amen.

