Alma 61
Chapter 61

Alma 61:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that soon after Moroni had sent
his epistle unto the chief governor, he received an epistle from
Pahoran, the chief governor. And these are the words which he
received:

Alma 61:2
 2 I, Pahoran, who am the chief governor of this land, do send
these words unto Moroni, the chief captain over the army.
Behold, I say unto you, Moroni, that I do not joy in your great
afflictions, yea, it grieves my soul.

Alma 61:3
 3 But behold, there are those who do joy in your afflictions,
yea, insomuch that they have risen up in rebellion against me,
and also those of my people who are freemen, yea, and those who
have risen up are exceedingly numerous.

Alma 61:4
 4 And it is those who have sought to take away the judgment-seat
from me that have been the cause of this great iniquity; for they
have used great flattery, and they have led away the hearts of
many people, which will be the cause of sore affliction among us;
they have withheld our provisions, and have daunted our freemen
that they have not come unto you.

Alma 61:5
 5 And behold, they have driven me out before them, and I have
fled to the land of Gideon, with as many men as it were possible
that I could get.

Alma 61:6
 6 And behold, I have sent a proclamation throughout this part of
the land; and behold, they are flocking to us daily, to their
arms, in the defence of their country and their freedom, and to
avenge our wrongs.

Alma 61:7
 7 And they have come unto us, insomuch that those who have risen
up in rebellion against us are set at defiance, yea, insomuch
that they do fear us and durst not come out against us to battle.

Alma 61:8
 8 They have got possession of the land, or the city, of
Zarahemla; they have appointed a king over them, and he hath
written unto the king of the Lamanites, in the which he hath
joined an alliance with him; in the which alliance he hath agreed
to maintain the city of Zarahemla, which maintenance he supposeth
will enable the Lamanites to conquer the remainder of the land,
and he shall be placed king over this people when they shall be
conquered under the Lamanites.

Alma 61:9
 9 And now, in your epistle you have censured me, but it
mattereth not; I am not angry, but do rejoice in the greatness of
your heart. I, Pahoran, do not seek for power, save only to
retain my judgment-seat that I may preserve the rights and the
liberty of my people. My soul standeth fast in that liberty in
the which God hath made us free.

Alma 61:10
 10 And now, behold, we will resist wickedness even unto
bloodshed. We would not shed the blood of the Lamanites if they
would stay in their own land.

Alma 61:11
 11 We would not shed the blood of our brethren if they would not
rise up in rebellion and take the sword against us.

Alma 61:12
 12 We would subject ourselves to the yoke of bondage if it were
requisite with the justice of God, or if he should command us so
to do.

Alma 61:13
 13 But behold he doth not command us that we shall subject
ourselves to our enemies, but that we should put our trust in
him, and he will deliver us.

Alma 61:14
 14 Therefore, my beloved brother, Moroni, let us resist evil,
and whatsoever evil we cannot resist with our words, yea, such as
rebellions and dissensions, let us resist them with our swords,
that we may retain our freedom, that we may rejoice in the great
privilege of our church, and in the cause of our Redeemer and our
God.

Alma 61:15
 15 Therefore, come unto me speedily with a few of your men, and
leave the remainder in the charge of Lehi and Teancum; give unto
them power to conduct the war in that part of the land, according
to the Spirit of God, which is also the Spirit of freedom which
is in them.

Alma 61:16
 16 Behold I have sent a few provisions unto them, that they may
not perish until ye can come unto me.

Alma 61:17
 17 Gather together whatsoever force ye can upon your march
hither, and we will go speedily against those dissenters, in the
strength of our God according to the faith which is in us.

Alma 61:18
 18 And we will take possession of the city of Zarahemla, that we
may obtain more food to send forth unto Lehi and Teancum; yea, we
will go forth against them in the strength of the Lord, and we
will put an end to this great iniquity.

Alma 61:19
 19 And now, Moroni, I do joy in receiving your epistle, for I
was somewhat worried concerning what we should do, whether it
should be just in us to go against our brethren.

Alma 61:20
 20 But ye have said, except they repent the Lord hath commanded
you that ye should go against them.

Alma 61:21
 21 See that ye strengthen Lehi and Teancum in the Lord; tell
them to fear not, for God will deliver them, yea, and also all
those who stand fast in that liberty wherewith God hath made them
free. And now I close mine epistle to my beloved brother,
Moroni.

