Alma 8
Chapter 8

Alma 8:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Alma returned from the land of
Gideon, after having taught the people of Gideon many things
which cannot be written, having established the order of the
church, according as he had before done in the land of Zarahemla,
yea, he returned to his own house at Zarahemla to rest himself
from the labors which he had performed.

Alma 8:2
 2 And thus ended the ninth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.

Alma 8:3
 3 And it came to pass in the commencement of the tenth year of
the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma
departed from thence and took his journey over into the land of
Melek, on the west of the river Sidon, on the west by the borders
of the wilderness.

Alma 8:4
 4 And he began to teach the people in the land of Melek
according to the holy order of God, by which he had been called;
and he began to teach the people throughout all the land of
Melek.

Alma 8:5
 5 And it came to pass that the people came to him throughout all
the borders of the land which was by the wilderness side. And
they were baptized throughout all the land;

Alma 8:6
 6 So that when he had finished his work at Melek he departed
thence, and traveled three days' journey on the north of the land
of Melek; and he came to a city which was called Ammonihah.

Alma 8:7
 7 Now it was the custom of the people of Nephi to call their
lands, and their cities, and their villages, yea, even all their
small villages, after the name of him who first possessed them;
and thus it was with the land of Ammonihah.

Alma 8:8
 8 And it came to pass that when Alma had come to the city of
Ammonihah he began to preach the word of God unto them.

Alma 8:9
 9 Now Satan had gotten great hold upon the hearts of the people
of the city of Ammonihah; therefore they would not hearken unto
the words of Alma.

Alma 8:10
 10 Nevertheless Alma labored much in the spirit, wrestling with
God in mighty prayer, that he would pour out his Spirit upon the
people who were in the city; that he would also grant that he
might baptize them unto repentance.

Alma 8:11
 11 Nevertheless, they hardened their hearts, saying unto him:
Behold, we know that thou art Alma; and we know that thou art
high priest over the church which thou hast established in many
parts of the land, according to your tradition; and we are not of
thy church, and we do not believe in such foolish traditions.

Alma 8:12
 12 And now we know that because we are not of thy church we know
that thou hast no power over us; and thou hast delivered up the
judgment-seat unto Nephihah; therefore thou art not the chief
judge over us.

Alma 8:13
 13 Now when the people had said this, and withstood all his
words, and reviled him, and spit upon him, and caused that he
should be cast out of their city, he departed thence and took his
journey towards the city which was called Aaron.

Alma 8:14
 14 And it came to pass that while he was journeying thither,
being weighed down with sorrow, wading through much tribulation
and anguish of soul, because of the wickedness of the people who
were in the city of Ammonihah, it came to pass while Alma was
thus weighed down with sorrow, behold an angel of the Lord
appeared unto him, saying:

Alma 8:15
 15 Blessed art thou, Alma; therefore, lift up thy head and
rejoice, for thou hast great cause to rejoice; for thou hast been
faithful in keeping the commandments of God from the time which
thou receivedst thy first message from him. Behold, I am he that
delivered it unto you.

Alma 8:16
 16 And behold, I am sent to command thee that thou return to the
city of Ammonihah, and preach again unto the people of the city;
yea, preach unto them. Yea, say unto them, except they repent
the Lord God will destroy them.

Alma 8:17
 17 For behold, they do study at this time that they may destroy
the liberty of thy people, (for thus saith the Lord) which is
contrary to the statutes, and judgments, and commandments which
he has given unto his people.

Alma 8:18
 18 Now it came to pass that after Alma had received his message
from the angel of the Lord he returned speedily to the land of
Ammonihah. And he entered the city by another way, yea, by the
way which is on the south of the city of Ammonihah.

Alma 8:19
 19 And as he entered the city he was an hungered, and he said to
a man: Will ye give to an humble servant of God something to eat?

Alma 8:20
 20 And the man said unto him: I am a Nephite, and I know that
thou art a holy prophet of God, for thou art the man whom an
angel said in a vision: Thou shalt receive. Therefore, go with
me into my house and I will impart unto thee of my food; and I
know that thou wilt be a blessing unto me and my house.

Alma 8:21
 21 And it came to pass that the man received him into his house;
and the man was called Amulek; and he brought forth bread and
meat and set before Alma.

Alma 8:22
 22 And it came to pass that Alma ate bread and was filled; and
he blessed Amulek and his house, and he gave thanks unto God.

Alma 8:23
 23 And after he had eaten and was filled he said unto Amulek: I
am Alma, and am the high priest over the church of God throughout
the land.

Alma 8:24
 24 And behold, I have been called to preach the word of God
among all this people, according to the spirit of revelation and
prophecy; and I was in this land and they would not receive me,
but they cast me out and I was about to set my back towards this
land forever.

Alma 8:25
 25 But behold, I have been commanded that I should turn again
and prophesy unto this people, yea, and to testify against them
concerning their iniquities.

Alma 8:26
 26 And now, Amulek, because thou hast fed me and taken me in,
thou art blessed; for I was an hungered, for I had fasted many
days.

Alma 8:27
 27 And Alma tarried many days with Amulek before he began to
preach unto the people.

Alma 8:28
 28 And it came to pass that the people did wax more gross in
their iniquities.

Alma 8:29
 29 And the word came to Alma, saying: Go; and also say unto my
servant Amulek, go forth and prophesy unto this people,
saying--Repent ye, for thus saith the Lord, except ye repent I
will visit this people in mine anger; yea, and I will not turn my
fierce anger away.

Alma 8:30
 30 And Alma went forth, and also Amulek, among the people, to
declare the words of God unto them; and they were filled with the
Holy Ghost.

Alma 8:31
 31 And they had power given unto them, insomuch that they could
not be confined in dungeons; neither was it possible that any man
could slay them; nevertheless they did not exercise their power
until they were bound in bands and cast into prison. Now, this
was done that the Lord might show forth his power in them.

Alma 8:32
 32 And it came to pass that they went forth and began to preach
and to prophesy unto the people, according to the spirit and
power which the Lord had given them.

