Alma 38
Chapter 38

Alma 38:1
 1 My son, give ear to my words, for I say unto you, even as I
said unto Helaman, that inasmuch as ye shall keep the
commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land; and inasmuch as
ye will not keep the commandments of God ye shall be cut off from
his presence.

Alma 38:2
 2 And now, my son, I trust that I shall have great joy in you,
because of your steadiness and your faithfulness unto God; for as
you have commenced in your youth to look to the Lord your God,
even so I hope that you will continue in keeping his
commandments; for blessed is he that endureth to the end.

Alma 38:3
 3 I say unto you, my son, that I have had great joy in thee
already, because of thy faithfulness and thy diligence, and thy
patience and thy long-suffering among the people of the
Zoramites.

Alma 38:4
 4 For I know that thou wast in bonds; yea, and I also know that
thou wast stoned for the word's sake; and thou didst bear all
these things with patience because the Lord was with thee; and
now thou knowest that the Lord did deliver thee.

Alma 38:5
 5 And now my son, Shiblon, I would that ye should remember, that
as much as ye shall put your trust in God even so much ye shall
be delivered out of your trials, and your troubles, and your
afflictions, and ye shall be lifted up at the last day.

Alma 38:6
 6 Now, my son, I would not that ye should think that I know
these things of myself, but it is the Spirit of God which is in
me which maketh these things known unto me; for if I had not been
born of God I should not have known these things.

Alma 38:7
 7 But behold, the Lord in his great mercy sent his angel to
declare unto me that I must stop the work of destruction among
his people; yea, and I have seen an angel face to face, and he
spake with me, and his voice was as thunder, and it shook the
whole earth.

Alma 38:8
 8 And it came to pass that I was three days and three nights in
the most bitter pain and anguish of soul; and never, until I did
cry out unto the Lord Jesus Christ for mercy, did I receive a
remission of my sins. But behold, I did cry unto him and I did
find peace to my soul.

Alma 38:9
 9 And now, my son, I have told you this that ye may learn
wisdom, that ye may learn of me that there is no other way or
means whereby man can be saved, only in and through Christ.
Behold, he is the life and the light of the world. Behold, he is
the word of truth and righteousness.

Alma 38:10
 10 And now, as ye have begun to teach the word even so I would
that ye should continue to teach; and I would that ye would be
diligent and temperate in all things.

Alma 38:11
 11 See that ye are not lifted up unto pride; yea, see that ye do
not boast in your own wisdom, nor of your much strength.

Alma 38:12
 12 Use boldness, but not overbearance; and also see that ye
bridle all your passions, that ye may be filled with love; see
that ye refrain from idleness.

Alma 38:13
 13 Do not pray as the Zoramites do, for ye have seen that they
pray to be heard of men, and to be praised for their wisdom.

Alma 38:14
 14 Do not say: O God, I thank thee that we are better than our
brethren; but rather say: O Lord, forgive my unworthiness, and
remember my brethren in mercy--yea, acknowledge your unworthiness
before God at all times.

Alma 38:15
 15 And may the Lord bless your soul, and receive you at the last
day into his kingdom, to sit down in peace. Now go, my son, and
teach the word unto this people. Be sober. My son, farewell.

