Helaman 12
Chapter 12

Helaman 12:1
 1 And thus we can behold how false, and also the unsteadiness of
the hearts of the children of men; yea, we can see that the Lord
in his great infinite goodness doth bless and prosper those who
put their trust in him.

Helaman 12:2
 2 Yea, and we may see at the very time when he doth prosper his
people, yea, in the increase of their fields, their flocks and
their herds, and in gold, and in silver, and in all manner of
precious things of every kind and art; sparing their lives, and
delivering them out of the hands of their enemies; softening the
hearts of their enemies that they should not declare wars against
them; yea, and in fine, doing all things for the welfare and
happiness of his people; yea, then is the time that they do
harden their hearts, and do forget the Lord their God, and do
trample under their feet the Holy One--yea, and this because of
their ease, and their exceedingly great prosperity.

Helaman 12:3
 3 And thus we see that except the Lord doth chasten his people
with many afflictions, yea, except he doth visit them with death
and with terror, and with famine and with all manner of
pestilence, they will not remember him.

Helaman 12:4
 4 O how foolish, and how vain, and how evil, and devilish, and
how quick to do iniquity, and how slow to do good, are the
children of men; yea, how quick to hearken unto the words of the
evil one, and to set their hearts upon the vain things of the
world!

Helaman 12:5
 5 Yea, how quick to be lifted up in pride; yea, how quick to
boast, and do all manner of that which is iniquity; and how slow
are they to remember the Lord their God, and to give ear unto his
counsels, yea, how slow to walk in wisdom's paths!

Helaman 12:6
 6 Behold, they do not desire that the Lord their God, who hath
created them, should rule and reign over them; notwithstanding
his great goodness and his mercy towards them, they do set at
naught his counsels, and they will not that he should be their
guide.

Helaman 12:7
 7 O how great is the nothingness of the children of men; yea,
even they are less than the dust of the earth.

Helaman 12:8
 8 For behold, the dust of the earth moveth hither and thither,
to the dividing asunder, at the command of our great and
everlasting God.

Helaman 12:9
 9 Yea, behold at his voice do the hills and the mountains
tremble and quake.

Helaman 12:10
 10 And by the power of his voice they are broken up, and become
smooth, yea, even like unto a valley.

Helaman 12:11
 11 Yea, by the power of his voice doth the whole earth shake;

Helaman 12:12
 12 Yea, by the power of his voice, do the foundations rock, even
to the very center.

Helaman 12:13
 13 Yea, and if he say unto the earth--Move--it is moved.

Helaman 12:14
 14 Yea, if he say unto the earth--Thou shalt go back, that it
lengthen out the day for many hours--it is done;

Helaman 12:15
 15 And thus, according to his word the earth goeth back, and it
appeareth unto man that the sun standeth still; yea, and behold,
this is so; for surely it is the earth that moveth and not the
sun.

Helaman 12:16
 16 And behold, also, if he say unto the waters of the great
deep--Be thou dried up--it is done.

Helaman 12:17
 17 Behold, if he say unto this mountain--Be thou raised up, and
come over and fall upon that city, that it be buried up--behold
it is done.

Helaman 12:18
 18 And behold, if a man hide up a treasure in the earth, and the
Lord shall say--Let it be accursed, because of the iniquity of
him who hath hid it up--behold, it shall be accursed.

Helaman 12:19
 19 And if the Lord shall say--Be thou accursed, that no man
shall find thee from this time henceforth and forever--behold, no
man getteth it henceforth and forever.

Helaman 12:20
 20 And behold, if the Lord shall say unto a man--Because of
thine iniquities, thou shalt be accursed forever--it shall be
done.

Helaman 12:21
 21 And if the Lord shall say--Because of thine iniquities thou
shalt be cut off from my presence--he will cause that it shall be
so.

Helaman 12:22
 22 And wo unto him to whom he shall say this, for it shall be
unto him that will do iniquity, and he cannot be saved;
therefore, for this cause, that men might be saved, hath
repentance been declared.

Helaman 12:23
 23 Therefore, blessed are they who will repent and hearken unto
the voice of the Lord their God; for these are they that shall be
saved.

Helaman 12:24
 24 And may God grant, in his great fulness, that men might be
brought unto repentance and good works, that they might be
restored unto grace for grace, according to their works.

Helaman 12:25
 25 And I would that all men might be saved. But we read that in
the great and last day there are some who shall be cast out, yea,
who shall be cast off from the presence of the Lord;

Helaman 12:26
 26 Yea, who shall be consigned to a state of endless misery,
fulfilling the words which say: They that have done good shall
have everlasting life; and they that have done evil shall have
everlasting damnation. And thus it is. Amen.

