3 Nephi 7
Chapter 7

3 Nephi 7:1
 1 Now behold, I will show unto you that they did not establish a
king over the land; but in this same year, yea, the thirtieth
year, they did destroy upon the judgment seat, yea, did murder
the chief judge of the land.

3 Nephi 7:2
 2 And the people were divided one against another; and they did
separate one from another into tribes, every man according to his
family and his kindred and friends; and thus they did destroy the
government of the land.

3 Nephi 7:3
 3 And every tribe did appoint a chief or a leader over them; and
thus they became tribes and leaders of tribes.

3 Nephi 7:4
 4 Now behold, there was no man among them save he had much
family and many kindreds and friends; therefore their tribes
became exceedingly great.

3 Nephi 7:5
 5 Now all this was done, and there were no wars as yet among
them; and all this iniquity had come upon the people because they
did yield themselves unto the power of Satan.

3 Nephi 7:6
 6 And the regulations of the government were destroyed, because
of the secret combination of the friends and kindreds of those
who murdered the prophets.

3 Nephi 7:7
 7 And they did cause a great contention in the land, insomuch
that the more righteous part of the people had nearly all become
wicked; yea, there were but few righteous men among them.

3 Nephi 7:8
 8 And thus six years had not passed away since the more part of
the people had turned from their righteousness, like the dog to
his vomit, or like the sow to her wallowing in the mire.

3 Nephi 7:9
 9 Now this secret combination, which had brought so great
iniquity upon the people, did gather themselves together, and did
place at their head a man whom they did call Jacob;

3 Nephi 7:10
 10 And they did call him their king; therefore he became a king
over this wicked band; and he was one of the chiefest who had
given his voice against the prophets who testified of Jesus.

3 Nephi 7:11
 11 And it came to pass that they were not so strong in number as
the tribes of the people, who were united together save it were
their leaders did establish their laws, every one according to
his tribe; nevertheless they were enemies; notwithstanding they
were not a righteous people, yet they were united in the hatred
of those who had entered into a covenant to destroy the
government.

3 Nephi 7:12
 12 Therefore, Jacob seeing that their enemies were more numerous
than they, he being the king of the band, therefore he commanded
his people that they should take their flight into the
northernmost part of the land, and there build up unto themselves
a kingdom, until they were joined by dissenters, (for he
flattered them that there would be many dissenters) and they
become sufficiently strong to contend with the tribes of the
people; and they did so.

3 Nephi 7:13
 13 And so speedy was their march that it could not be impeded
until they had gone forth out of the reach of the people. And
thus ended the thirtieth year; and thus were the affairs of the
people of Nephi.

3 Nephi 7:14
 14 And it came to pass in the thirty and first year that they
were divided into tribes, every man according to his family,
kindred and friends; nevertheless they had come to an agreement
that they would not go to war one with another; but they were not
united as to their laws, and their manner of government, for they
were established according to the minds of those who were their
chiefs and their leaders. But they did establish very strict
laws that one tribe should not trespass against another, insomuch
that in some degree they had peace in the land; nevertheless,
their hearts were turned from the Lord their God, and they did
stone the prophets and did cast them out from among them.

3 Nephi 7:15
 15 And it came to pass that Nephi--having been visited by angels
and also the voice of the Lord, therefore having seen angels, and
being eye-witness, and having had power given unto him that he
might know concerning the ministry of Christ, and also being
eye-witness to their quick return from righteousness unto their
wickedness and abominations;

3 Nephi 7:16
 16 Therefore, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts and
the blindness of their minds--went forth among them in that same
year, and began to testify, boldly, repentance and remission of
sins through faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.

3 Nephi 7:17
 17 And he did minister many things unto them; and all of them
cannot be written, and a part of them would not suffice,
therefore they are not written in this book. And Nephi did
minister with power and with great authority.

3 Nephi 7:18
 18 And it came to pass that they were angry with him, even
because he had greater power than they, for it were not possible
that they could disbelieve his words, for so great was his faith
on the Lord Jesus Christ that angels did minister unto him daily.

3 Nephi 7:19
 19 And in the name of Jesus did he cast out devils and unclean
spirits; and even his brother did he raise from the dead, after
he had been stoned and suffered death by the people.

3 Nephi 7:20
 20 And the people saw it, and did witness of it, and were angry
with him because of his power; and he did also do many more
miracles, in the sight of the people, in the name of Jesus.

3 Nephi 7:21
 21 And it came to pass that the thirty and first year did pass
away, and there were but few who were converted unto the Lord;
but as many as were converted did truly signify unto the people
that they had been visited by the power and Spirit of God, which
was in Jesus Christ, in whom they believed.

3 Nephi 7:22
 22 And as many as had devils cast out from them, and were healed
of their sicknesses and their infirmities, did truly manifest
unto the people that they had been wrought upon by the Spirit of
God, and had been healed; and they did show forth signs also and
did do some miracles among the people.

3 Nephi 7:23
 23 Thus passed away the thirty and second year also. And Nephi
did cry unto the people in the commencement of the thirty and
third year; and he did preach unto them repentance and remission
of sins.

3 Nephi 7:24
 24 Now I would have you to remember also, that there were none
who were brought unto repentance who were not baptized with
water.

3 Nephi 7:25
 25 Therefore, there were ordained of Nephi, men unto this
ministry, that all such as should come unto them should be
baptized with water, and this as a witness and a testimony before
God, and unto the people, that they had repented and received a
remission of their sins.

3 Nephi 7:26
 26 And there were many in the commencement of this year that
were baptized unto repentance; and thus the more part of the year
did pass away.

