3 Nephi 13
Chapter 13

3 Nephi 13:1
 1 Verily, verily, I say that I would that ye should do alms unto
the poor; but take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be
seen of them; otherwise ye have no reward of your Father who is
in heaven.

3 Nephi 13:2
 2 Therefore, when ye shall do your alms do not sound a trumpet
before you, as will hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the
streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you,
they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:3
 3 But when thou doest alms let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth;

3 Nephi 13:4
 4 That thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who seeth in
secret, himself shall reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:5
 5 And when thou prayest thou shalt not do as the hypocrites, for
they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners
of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto
you, they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:6
 6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when
thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and
thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:7
 7 But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen,
for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

3 Nephi 13:8
 8 Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth
what things ye have need of before ye ask him.

3 Nephi 13:9
 9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father who art in
heaven, hallowed be thy name.

3 Nephi 13:10
 10 Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.

3 Nephi 13:11
 11 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

3 Nephi 13:12
 12 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.

3 Nephi 13:13
 13 For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,
forever. Amen.

3 Nephi 13:14
 14 For, if ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father
will also forgive you;

3 Nephi 13:15
 15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your
Father forgive your trespasses.

3 Nephi 13:16
 16 Moreover, when ye fast be not as the hypocrites, of a sad
countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear
unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:17
 17 But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head, and wash thy
face;

3 Nephi 13:18
 18 That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father,
who is in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall
reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:19
 19 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth
and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal;

3 Nephi 13:20
 20 But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither
moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break
through nor steal.

3 Nephi 13:21
 21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

3 Nephi 13:22
 22 The light of the body is the eye; if, therefore, thine eye be
single, thy whole body shall be full of light.

3 Nephi 13:23
 23 But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of
darkness. If, therefore, the light that is in thee be darkness,
how great is that darkness!

3 Nephi 13:24
 24 No man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one
and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise
the other. Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.

3 Nephi 13:25
 25 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words he looked upon the twelve whom he had chosen, and said unto
them: Remember the words which I have spoken. For behold, ye are
they whom I have chosen to minister unto this people. Therefore
I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat,
or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put
on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?

3 Nephi 13:26
 26 Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do
they reap nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth
them. Are ye not much better than they?

3 Nephi 13:27
 27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his
stature?

3 Nephi 13:28
 28 And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of
the field how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin;

3 Nephi 13:29
 29 And yet I say unto you, that even Solomon, in all his glory,
was not arrayed like one of these.

3 Nephi 13:30
 30 Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which
today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, even so will he
clothe you, if ye are not of little faith.

3 Nephi 13:31
 31 Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or,
What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?

3 Nephi 13:32
 32 For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all
these things.

3 Nephi 13:33
 33 But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,
and all these things shall be added unto you.

3 Nephi 13:34
 34 Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow
shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient is the
day unto the evil thereof.

