3 Nephi 21
Chapter 21

3 Nephi 21:1
 1 And verily I say unto you, I give unto you a sign, that ye may
know the time when these things shall be about to take
place--that I shall gather in, from their long dispersion, my
people, O house of Israel, and shall establish again among them
my Zion;

3 Nephi 21:2
 2 And behold, this is the thing which I will give unto you for a
sign--for verily I say unto you that when these things which I
declare unto you, and which I shall declare unto you hereafter of
myself, and by the power of the Holy Ghost which shall be given
unto you of the Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles
that they may know concerning this people who are a remnant of
the house of Jacob, and concerning this my people who shall be
scattered by them;

3 Nephi 21:3
 3 Verily, verily, I say unto you, when these things shall be
made known unto them of the Father, and shall come forth of the
Father, from them unto you;

3 Nephi 21:4
 4 For it is wisdom in the Father that they should be established
in this land, and be set up as a free people by the power of the
Father, that these things might come forth from them unto a
remnant of your seed, that the covenant of the Father may be
fulfilled which he hath covenanted with his people, O house of
Israel;

3 Nephi 21:5
 5 Therefore, when these works and the works which shall be
wrought among you hereafter shall come forth from the Gentiles,
unto your seed which shall dwindle in unbelief because of
iniquity;

3 Nephi 21:6
 6 For thus it behooveth the Father that it should come forth
from the Gentiles, that he may show forth his power unto the
Gentiles, for this cause that the Gentiles, if they will not
harden their hearts, that they may repent and come unto me and be
baptized in my name and know of the true points of my doctrine,
that they may be numbered among my people, O house of Israel;

3 Nephi 21:7
 7 And when these things come to pass that thy seed shall begin
to know these things--it shall be a sign unto them, that they may
know that the work of the Father hath already commenced unto the
fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the people who
are of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 21:8
 8 And when that day shall come, it shall come to pass that kings
shall shut their mouths; for that which had not been told them
shall they see; and that which they had not heard shall they
consider.

3 Nephi 21:9
 9 For in that day, for my sake shall the Father work a work,
which shall be a great and a marvelous work among them; and there
shall be among them those who will not believe it, although a man
shall declare it unto them.

3 Nephi 21:10
 10 But behold, the life of my servant shall be in my hand;
therefore they shall not hurt him, although he shall be marred
because of them. Yet I will heal him, for I will show unto them
that my wisdom is greater than the cunning of the devil.

3 Nephi 21:11
 11 Therefore it shall come to pass that whosoever will not
believe in my words, who am Jesus Christ, which the Father shall
cause him to bring forth unto the Gentiles, and shall give unto
him power that he shall bring them forth unto the Gentiles, (it
shall be done even as Moses said) they shall be cut off from
among my people who are of the covenant.

3 Nephi 21:12
 12 And my people who are a remnant of Jacob shall be among the
Gentiles, yea, in the midst of them as a lion among the beasts of
the forest, as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who, if he
go through both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and none can
deliver.

3 Nephi 21:13
 13 Their hand shall be lifted up upon their adversaries, and all
their enemies shall be cut off.

3 Nephi 21:14
 14 Yea, wo be unto the Gentiles except they repent; for it shall
come to pass in that day, saith the Father, that I will cut off
thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy thy
chariots;

3 Nephi 21:15
 15 And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and throw down all
thy strongholds;

3 Nephi 21:16
 16 And I will cut off witchcrafts out of thy land, and thou
shalt have no more soothsayers;

3 Nephi 21:17
 17 Thy graven images I will also cut off, and thy standing
images out of the midst of thee, and thou shalt no more worship
the works of thy hands;

3 Nephi 21:18
 18 And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee; so
will I destroy thy cities.

3 Nephi 21:19
 19 And it shall come to pass that all lyings, and deceivings,
and envyings, and strifes, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, shall
be done away.

3 Nephi 21:20
 20 For it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that at that day
whosoever will not repent and come unto my Beloved Son, them will
I cut off from among my people, O house of Israel;

3 Nephi 21:21
 21 And I will execute vengeance and fury upon them, even as upon
the heathen, such as they have not heard.

3 Nephi 21:22
 22 But if they will repent and hearken unto my words, and harden
not their hearts, I will establish my church among them, and they
shall come in unto the covenant and be numbered among this the
remnant of Jacob, unto whom I have given this land for their
inheritance;

3 Nephi 21:23
 23 And they shall assist my people, the remnant of Jacob, and
also as many of the house of Israel as shall come, that they may
build a city, which shall be called the New Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:24
 24 And then shall they assist my people that they may be
gathered in, who are scattered upon all the face of the land, in
unto the New Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:25
 25 And then shall the power of heaven come down among them; and
I also will be in the midst.

3 Nephi 21:26
 26 And then shall the work of the Father commence at that day,
even when this gospel shall be preached among the remnant of this
people. Verily I say unto you, at that day shall the work of the
Father commence among all the dispersed of my people, yea, even
the tribes which have been lost, which the Father hath led away
out of Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:27
 27 Yea, the work shall commence among all the dispersed of my
people, with the Father to prepare the way whereby they may come
unto me, that they may call on the Father in my name.

3 Nephi 21:28
 28 Yea, and then shall the work commence, with the Father among
all nations in preparing the way whereby his people may be
gathered home to the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 21:29
 29 And they shall go out from all nations; and they shall not go
out in haste, nor go by flight, for I will go before them, saith
the Father, and I will be their rearward.

