3 Nephi 24
Chapter 24

3 Nephi 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that he commanded them that they should
write the words which the Father had given unto Malachi, which he
should tell unto them. And it came to pass that after they were
written he expounded them. And these are the words which he did
tell unto them, saying: Thus said the Father unto
Malachi--Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare
the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come
to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye
delight in; behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:2
 2 But who may abide the day of his coming, and who shall stand
when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like
fuller's soap.

3 Nephi 24:3
 3 And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver; and he
shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver,
that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness.

3 Nephi 24:4
 4 Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant
unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years.

3 Nephi 24:5
 5 And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift
witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and
against false swearers, and against those that oppress the
hireling in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger, and fear not me, saith the Lord of
Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:6
 6 For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob
are not consumed.

3 Nephi 24:7
 7 Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine
ordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me and I will
return unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts. But ye say: Wherein
shall we return?

3 Nephi 24:8
 8 Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say:
Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings.

3 Nephi 24:9
 9 Ye are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me, even this
whole nation.

3 Nephi 24:10
 10 Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may
be meat in my house; and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of
Hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you
out a blessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it.

3 Nephi 24:11
 11 And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall
not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine
cast her fruit before the time in the fields, saith the Lord of
Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:12
 12 And all nations shall call you blessed, for ye shall be a
delightsome land, saith the Lord of Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:13
 13 Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet
ye say: What have we spoken against thee?

3 Nephi 24:14
 14 Ye have said: It is vain to serve God, and what doth it
profit that we have kept his ordinances and that we have walked
mournfully before the Lord of Hosts?

3 Nephi 24:15
 15 And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work
wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even
delivered.

3 Nephi 24:16
 16 Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another,
and the Lord hearkened and heard; and a book of remembrance was
written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that
thought upon his name.

3 Nephi 24:17
 17 And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in that day
when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them as a man spareth
his own son that serveth him.

3 Nephi 24:18
 18 Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and
the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him
not.

