3 Nephi 20
Chapter 20

3 Nephi 20:1
 1 And it came to pass that he commanded the multitude that they
should cease to pray, and also his disciples. And he commanded
them that they should not cease to pray in their hearts.

3 Nephi 20:2
 2 And he commanded them that they should arise and stand up upon
their feet. And they arose up and stood upon their feet.

3 Nephi 20:3
 3 And it came to pass that he brake bread again and blessed it,
and gave to the disciples to eat.

3 Nephi 20:4
 4 And when they had eaten he commanded them that they should
break bread, and give unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 20:5
 5 And when they had given unto the multitude he also gave them
wine to drink, and commanded them that they should give unto the
multitude.

3 Nephi 20:6
 6 Now, there had been no bread, neither wine, brought by the
disciples, neither by the multitude;

3 Nephi 20:7
 7 But he truly gave unto them bread to eat, and also wine to
drink.

3 Nephi 20:8
 8 And he said unto them: He that eateth this bread eateth of my
body to his soul; and he that drinketh of this wine drinketh of
my blood to his soul; and his soul shall never hunger nor thirst,
but shall be filled.

3 Nephi 20:9
 9 Now, when the multitude had all eaten and drunk, behold, they
were filled with the Spirit; and they did cry out with one voice,
and gave glory to Jesus, whom they both saw and heard.

3 Nephi 20:10
 10 And it came to pass that when they had all given glory unto
Jesus, he said unto them: Behold now I finish the commandment
which the Father hath commanded me concerning this people, who
are a remnant of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:11
 11 Ye remember that I spake unto you, and said that when the
words of Isaiah should be fulfilled--behold they are written, ye
have them before you, therefore search them--

3 Nephi 20:12
 12 And verily, verily, I say unto you, that when they shall be
fulfilled then is the fulfilling of the covenant which the Father
hath made unto his people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:13
 13 And then shall the remnants, which shall be scattered abroad
upon the face of the earth, be gathered in from the east and from
the west, and from the south and from the north; and they shall
be brought to the knowledge of the Lord their God, who hath
redeemed them.

3 Nephi 20:14
 14 And the Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you
this land, for your inheritance.

3 Nephi 20:15
 15 And I say unto you, that if the Gentiles do not repent after
the blessing which they shall receive, after they have scattered
my people--

3 Nephi 20:16
 16 Then shall ye, who are a remnant of the house of Jacob, go
forth among them; and ye shall be in the midst of them who shall
be many; and ye shall be among them as a lion among the beasts of
the forest, and as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who,
if he goeth through both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and
none can deliver.

3 Nephi 20:17
 17 Thy hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all
thine enemies shall be cut off.

3 Nephi 20:18
 18 And I will gather my people together as a man gathereth his
sheaves into the floor.

3 Nephi 20:19
 19 For I will make my people with whom the Father hath
covenanted, yea, I will make thy horn iron, and I will make thy
hoofs brass. And thou shalt beat in pieces many people; and I
will consecrate their gain unto the Lord, and their substance
unto the Lord of the whole earth. And behold, I am he who doeth
it.

3 Nephi 20:20
 20 And it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that the sword
of my justice shall hang over them at that day; and except they
repent it shall fall upon them, saith the Father, yea, even upon
all the nations of the Gentiles.

3 Nephi 20:21
 21 And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O
house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:22
 22 And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto
the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father
Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem. And the powers of heaven
shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the
midst of you.

3 Nephi 20:23
 23 Behold, I am he of whom Moses spake, saying: A prophet shall
the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto
me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto
you. And it shall come to pass that every soul who will not hear
that prophet shall be cut off from among the people.

3 Nephi 20:24
 24 Verily I say unto you, yea, and all the prophets from Samuel
and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have
testified of me.

3 Nephi 20:25
 25 And behold, ye are the children of the prophets; and ye are
of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant which the
Father made with your fathers, saying unto Abraham: And in thy
seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.

3 Nephi 20:26
 26 The Father having raised me up unto you first, and sent me to
bless you in turning away every one of you from his iniquities;
and this because ye are the children of the covenant--

3 Nephi 20:27
 27 And after that ye were blessed then fulfilleth the Father the
covenant which he made with Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall
all the kindreds of the earth be blessed--unto the pouring out of
the Holy Ghost through me upon the Gentiles, which blessing upon
the Gentiles shall make them mighty above all, unto the
scattering of my people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:28
 28 And they shall be a scourge unto the people of this land.
Nevertheless, when they shall have received the fulness of my
gospel, then if they shall harden their hearts against me I will
return their iniquities upon their own heads, saith the Father.

3 Nephi 20:29
 29 And I will remember the covenant which I have made with my
people; and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them
together in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again
the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which is the
land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever,
saith the Father.

3 Nephi 20:30
 30 And it shall come to pass that the time cometh, when the
fulness of my gospel shall be preached unto them;

3 Nephi 20:31
 31 And they shall believe in me, that I am Jesus Christ, the Son
of God, and shall pray unto the Father in my name.

3 Nephi 20:32
 32 Then shall their watchmen lift up their voice, and with the
voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye.

3 Nephi 20:33
 33 Then will the Father gather them together again, and give
unto them Jerusalem for the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 20:34
 34 Then shall they break forth into joy--Sing together, ye waste
places of Jerusalem; for the Father hath comforted his people, he
hath redeemed Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 20:35
 35 The Father hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of
the Father; and the Father and I are one.

3 Nephi 20:36
 36 And then shall be brought to pass that which is written:
Awake, awake again, and put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy
beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city, for henceforth
there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the
unclean.

3 Nephi 20:37
 37 Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem;
loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of
Zion.

3 Nephi 20:38
 38 For thus saith the Lord: Ye have sold yourselves for naught,
and ye shall be redeemed without money.

3 Nephi 20:39
 39 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that my people shall know my
name; yea, in that day they shall know that I am he that doth
speak.

3 Nephi 20:40
 40 And then shall they say: How beautiful upon the mountains are
the feet of him that bringeth good tidings unto them, that
publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings unto them of good,
that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion: Thy God
reigneth!

3 Nephi 20:41
 41 And then shall a cry go forth: Depart ye, depart ye, go ye
out from thence, touch not that which is unclean; go ye out of
the midst of her; be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord.

3 Nephi 20:42
 42 For ye shall not go out with haste nor go by flight; for the
Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel shall be your
rearward.

3 Nephi 20:43
 43 Behold, my servant shall deal prudently; he shall be exalted
and extolled and be very high.

3 Nephi 20:44
 44 As many were astonished at thee--his visage was so marred,
more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men--

3 Nephi 20:45
 45 So shall he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their
mouths at him, for that which had not been told them shall they
see; and that which they had not heard shall they consider.

3 Nephi 20:46
 46 Verily, verily, I say unto you, all these things shall surely
come, even as the Father hath commanded me. Then shall this
covenant which the Father hath covenanted with his people be
fulfilled; and then shall Jerusalem be inhabited again with my
people, and it shall be the land of their inheritance.

