Mormon 2
Chapter 2

Mormon 2:1
 1 And it came to pass in that same year there began to be a war
again between the Nephites and the Lamanites. And
notwithstanding I being young, was large in stature; therefore
the people of Nephi appointed me that I should be their leader,
or the leader of their armies.

Mormon 2:2
 2 Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I did go
forth at the head of an army of the Nephites, against the
Lamanites; therefore three hundred and twenty and six years had
passed away.

Mormon 2:3
 3 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and twenty and
seventh year the Lamanites did come upon us with exceedingly
great power, insomuch that they did frighten my armies; therefore
they would not fight, and they began to retreat towards the north
countries.

Mormon 2:4
 4 And it came to pass that we did come to the city of Angola,
and we did take possession of the city, and make preparations to
defend ourselves against the Lamanites. And it came to pass that
we did fortify the city with our might; but notwithstanding all
our fortifications the Lamanites did come upon us and did drive
us out of the city.

Mormon 2:5
 5 And they did also drive us forth out of the land of David.

Mormon 2:6
 6 And we marched forth and came to the land of Joshua, which was
in the borders west by the seashore.

Mormon 2:7
 7 And it came to pass that we did gather in our people as fast
as it were possible, that we might get them together in one body.

Mormon 2:8
 8 But behold, the land was filled with robbers and with
Lamanites; and notwithstanding the great destruction which hung
over my people, they did not repent of their evil doings;
therefore there was blood and carnage spread throughout all the
face of the land, both on the part of the Nephites and also on
the part of the Lamanites; and it was one complete revolution
throughout all the face of the land.

Mormon 2:9
 9 And now, the Lamanites had a king, and his name was Aaron; and
he came against us with an army of forty and four thousand. And
behold, I withstood him with forty and two thousand. And it came
to pass that I beat him with my army that he fled before me. And
behold, all this was done, and three hundred and thirty years had
passed away.

Mormon 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that the Nephites began to repent of
their iniquity, and began to cry even as had been prophesied by
Samuel the prophet; for behold no man could keep that which was
his own, for the thieves, and the robbers, and the murderers, and
the magic art, and the witchcraft which was in the land.

Mormon 2:11
 11 Thus there began to be a mourning and a lamentation in all
the land because of these things, and more especially among the
people of Nephi.

Mormon 2:12
 12 And it came to pass that when I, Mormon, saw their
lamentation and their mourning and their sorrow before the Lord,
my heart did begin to rejoice within me, knowing the mercies and
the long-suffering of the Lord, therefore supposing that he would
be merciful unto them that they would again become a righteous
people.

Mormon 2:13
 13 But behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing was not
unto repentance, because of the goodness of God; but it was
rather the sorrowing of the damned, because the Lord would not
always suffer them to take happiness in sin.

Mormon 2:14
 14 And they did not come unto Jesus with broken hearts and
contrite spirits, but they did curse God, and wish to die.
Nevertheless they would struggle with the sword for their lives.

Mormon 2:15
 15 And it came to pass that my sorrow did return unto me again,
and I saw that the day of grace was passed with them, both
temporally and spiritually; for I saw thousands of them hewn down
in open rebellion against their God, and heaped up as dung upon
the face of the land. And thus three hundred and forty and four
years had passed away.

Mormon 2:16
 16 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and forty and
fifth year the Nephites did begin to flee before the Lamanites;
and they were pursued until they came even to the land of Jashon,
before it was possible to stop them in their retreat.

Mormon 2:17
 17 And now, the city of Jashon was near the land where Ammaron
had deposited the records unto the Lord, that they might not be
destroyed. And behold I had gone according to the word of
Ammaron, and taken the plates of Nephi, and did make a record
according to the words of Ammaron.

Mormon 2:18
 18 And upon the plates of Nephi I did make a full account of all
the wickedness and abominations; but upon these plates I did
forbear to make a full account of their wickedness and
abominations, for behold, a continual scene of wickedness and
abominations has been before mine eyes ever since I have been
sufficient to behold the ways of man.

Mormon 2:19
 19 And wo is me because of their wickedness; for my heart has
been filled with sorrow because of their wickedness, all my days;
nevertheless, I know that I shall be lifted up at the last day.

Mormon 2:20
 20 And it came to pass that in this year the people of Nephi
again were hunted and driven. And it came to pass that we were
driven forth until we had come northward to the land which was
called Shem.

Mormon 2:21
 21 And it came to pass that we did fortify the city of Shem, and
we did gather in our people as much as it were possible, that
perhaps we might save them from destruction.

Mormon 2:22
 22 And it came to pass in the three hundred and forty and sixth
year they began to come upon us again.

Mormon 2:23
 23 And it came to pass that I did speak unto my people, and did
urge them with great energy, that they would stand boldly before
the Lamanites and fight for their wives, and their children, and
their houses, and their homes.

Mormon 2:24
 24 And my words did arouse them somewhat to vigor, insomuch that
they did not flee from before the Lamanites, but did stand with
boldness against them.

Mormon 2:25
 25 And it came to pass that we did contend with an army of
thirty thousand against an army of fifty thousand. And it came
to pass that we did stand before them with such firmness that
they did flee from before us.

Mormon 2:26
 26 And it came to pass that when they had fled we did pursue
them with our armies, and did meet them again, and did beat them;
nevertheless the strength of the Lord was not with us; yea, we
were left to ourselves, that the Spirit of the Lord did not abide
in us; therefore we had become weak like unto our brethren.

Mormon 2:27
 27 And my heart did sorrow because of this the great calamity of
my people, because of their wickedness and their abominations.
But behold, we did go forth against the Lamanites and the robbers
of Gadianton, until we had again taken possession of the lands of
our inheritance.

Mormon 2:28
 28 And the three hundred and forty and ninth year had passed
away. And in the three hundred and fiftieth year we made a
treaty with the Lamanites and the robbers of Gadianton, in which
we did get the lands of our inheritance divided.

Mormon 2:29
 29 And the Lamanites did give unto us the land northward, yea,
even to the narrow passage which led into the land southward.
And we did give unto the Lamanites all the land southward.

