Ether 11
Chapter 11

Ether 11:1
 1 And there came also in the days of Com many prophets, and
prophesied of the destruction of that great people except they
should repent, and turn unto the Lord, and forsake their murders
and wickedness.

Ether 11:2
 2 And it came to pass that the prophets were rejected by the
people, and they fled unto Com for protection, for the people
sought to destroy them.

Ether 11:3
 3 And they prophesied unto Com many things; and he was blessed
in all the remainder of his days.

Ether 11:4
 4 And he lived to a good old age, and begat Shiblom; and Shiblom
reigned in his stead. And the brother of Shiblom rebelled
against him, and there began to be an exceedingly great war in
all the land.

Ether 11:5
 5 And it came to pass that the brother of Shiblom caused that
all the prophets who prophesied of the destruction of the people
should be put to death;

Ether 11:6
 6 And there was great calamity in all the land, for they had
testified that a great curse should come upon the land, and also
upon the people, and that there should be a great destruction
among them, such an one as never had been upon the face of the
earth, and their bones should become as heaps of earth upon the
face of the land except they should repent of their wickedness.

Ether 11:7
 7 And they hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord, because of
their wicked combinations; wherefore, there began to be wars and
contentions in all the land, and also many famines and
pestilences, insomuch that there was a great destruction, such an
one as never had been known upon the face of the earth; and all
this came to pass in the days of Shiblom.

Ether 11:8
 8 And the people began to repent of their iniquity; and inasmuch
as they did the Lord did have mercy on them.

Ether 11:9
 9 And it came to pass that Shiblom was slain, and Seth was
brought into captivity, and did dwell in captivity all his days.

Ether 11:10
 10 And it came to pass that Ahah, his son, did obtain the
kingdom; and he did reign over the people all his days. And he
did do all manner of iniquity in his days, by which he did cause
the shedding of much blood; and few were his days.

Ether 11:11
 11 And Ethem, being a descendant of Ahah, did obtain the
kingdom; and he also did do that which was wicked in his days.

Ether 11:12
 12 And it came to pass that in the days of Ethem there came many
prophets, and prophesied again unto the people; yea, they did
prophesy that the Lord would utterly destroy them from off the
face of the earth except they repented of their iniquities.

Ether 11:13
 13 And it came to pass that the people hardened their hearts,
and would not hearken unto their words; and the prophets mourned
and withdrew from among the people.

Ether 11:14
 14 And it came to pass that Ethem did execute judgment in
wickedness all his days; and he begat Moron. And it came to pass
that Moron did reign in his stead; and Moron did that which was
wicked before the Lord.

Ether 11:15
 15 And it came to pass that there arose a rebellion among the
people, because of that secret combination which was built up to
get power and gain; and there arose a mighty man among them in
iniquity, and gave battle unto Moron, in which he did overthrow
the half of the kingdom; and he did maintain the half of the
kingdom for many years.

Ether 11:16
 16 And it came to pass that Moron did overthrow him, and did
obtain the kingdom again.

Ether 11:17
 17 And it came to pass that there arose another mighty man; and
he was a descendant of the brother of Jared.

Ether 11:18
 18 And it came to pass that he did overthrow Moron and obtain
the kingdom; wherefore, Moron dwelt in captivity all the
remainder of his days; and he begat Coriantor.

Ether 11:19
 19 And it came to pass that Coriantor dwelt in captivity all his
days.

Ether 11:20
 20 And in the days of Coriantor there also came many prophets,
and prophesied of great and marvelous things, and cried
repentance unto the people, and except they should repent the
Lord God would execute judgment against them to their utter
destruction;

Ether 11:21
 21 And that the Lord God would send or bring forth another
people to possess the land, by his power, after the manner by
which he brought their fathers.

Ether 11:22
 22 And they did reject all the words of the prophets, because of
their secret society and wicked abominations.

Ether 11:23
 23 And it came to pass that Coriantor begat Ether, and he died,
having dwelt in captivity all his days.

