Ether 12
Chapter 12

Ether 12:1
 1 And it came to pass that the days of Ether were in the days of
Coriantumr; and Coriantumr was king over all the land.

Ether 12:2
 2 And Ether was a prophet of the Lord; wherefore Ether came
forth in the days of Coriantumr, and began to prophesy unto the
people, for he could not be restrained because of the Spirit of
the Lord which was in him.

Ether 12:3
 3 For he did cry from the morning, even until the going down of
the sun, exhorting the people to believe in God unto repentance
lest they should be destroyed, saying unto them that by faith all
things are fulfilled--

Ether 12:4
 4 Wherefore, whoso believeth in God might with surety hope for a
better world, yea, even a place at the right hand of God, which
hope cometh of faith, maketh an anchor to the souls of men, which
would make them sure and steadfast, always abounding in good
works, being led to glorify God.

Ether 12:5
 5 And it came to pass that Ether did prophesy great and
marvelous things unto the people, which they did not believe,
because they saw them not.

Ether 12:6
 6 And now, I, Moroni, would speak somewhat concerning these
things; I would show unto the world that faith is things which
are hoped for and not seen; wherefore, dispute not because ye see
not, for ye receive no witness until after the trial of your
faith.

Ether 12:7
 7 For it was by faith that Christ showed himself unto our
fathers, after he had risen from the dead; and he showed not
himself unto them until after they had faith in him; wherefore,
it must needs be that some had faith in him, for he showed
himself not unto the world.

Ether 12:8
 8 But because of the faith of men he has shown himself unto the
world, and glorified the name of the Father, and prepared a way
that thereby others might be partakers of the heavenly gift, that
they might hope for those things which they have not seen.

Ether 12:9
 9 Wherefore, ye may also have hope, and be partakers of the
gift, if ye will but have faith.

Ether 12:10
 10 Behold it was by faith that they of old were called after the
holy order of God.

Ether 12:11
 11 Wherefore, by faith was the law of Moses given. But in the
gift of his Son hath God prepared a more excellent way; and it is
by faith that it hath been fulfilled.

Ether 12:12
 12 For if there be no faith among the children of men God can do
no miracle among them; wherefore, he showed not himself until
after their faith.

Ether 12:13
 13 Behold, it was the faith of Alma and Amulek that caused the
prison to tumble to the earth.

Ether 12:14
 14 Behold, it was the faith of Nephi and Lehi that wrought the
change upon the Lamanites, that they were baptized with fire and
with the Holy Ghost.

Ether 12:15
 15 Behold, it was the faith of Ammon and his brethren which
wrought so great a miracle among the Lamanites.

Ether 12:16
 16 Yea, and even all they who wrought miracles wrought them by
faith, even those who were before Christ and also those who were
after.

Ether 12:17
 17 And it was by faith that the three disciples obtained a
promise that they should not taste of death; and they obtained
not the promise until after their faith.

Ether 12:18
 18 And neither at any time hath any wrought miracles until after
their faith; wherefore they first believed in the Son of God.

Ether 12:19
 19 And there were many whose faith was so exceedingly strong,
even before Christ came, who could not be kept from within the
veil, but truly saw with their eyes the things which they had
beheld with an eye of faith, and they were glad.

Ether 12:20
 20 And behold, we have seen in this record that one of these was
the brother of Jared; for so great was his faith in God, that
when God put forth his finger he could not hide it from the sight
of the brother of Jared, because of his word which he had spoken
unto him, which word he had obtained by faith.

Ether 12:21
 21 And after the brother of Jared had beheld the finger of the
Lord, because of the promise which the brother of Jared had
obtained by faith, the Lord could not withhold anything from his
sight; wherefore he showed him all things, for he could no longer
be kept without the veil.

Ether 12:22
 22 And it is by faith that my fathers have obtained the promise
that these things should come unto their brethren through the
Gentiles; therefore the Lord hath commanded me, yea, even Jesus
Christ.

Ether 12:23
 23 And I said unto him: Lord, the Gentiles will mock at these
things, because of our weakness in writing; for Lord thou hast
made us mighty in word by faith, but thou hast not made us mighty
in writing; for thou hast made all this people that they could
speak much, because of the Holy Ghost which thou hast given them;

Ether 12:24
 24 And thou hast made us that we could write but little, because
of the awkwardness of our hands. Behold, thou hast not made us
mighty in writing like unto the brother of Jared, for thou madest
him that the things which he wrote were mighty even as thou art,
unto the overpowering of man to read them.

Ether 12:25
 25 Thou hast also made our words powerful and great, even that
we cannot write them; wherefore, when we write we behold our
weakness, and stumble because of the placing of our words; and I
fear lest the Gentiles shall mock at our words.

Ether 12:26
 26 And when I had said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying:
Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for
the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness;

Ether 12:27
 27 And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness.
I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is
sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me; for if
they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will
I make weak things become strong unto them.

Ether 12:28
 28 Behold, I will show unto the Gentiles their weakness and I
will show unto them that faith, hope and charity bringeth unto
me--the fountain of all righteousness.

Ether 12:29
 29 And I, Moroni, having heard these words, was comforted, and
said: O Lord, thy righteous will be done, for I know that thou
workest unto the children of men according to their faith;

Ether 12:30
 30 For the brother of Jared said unto the mountain Zerin,
Remove--and it was removed. And if he had not had faith it would
not have moved; wherefore thou workest after men have faith.

Ether 12:31
 31 For thus didst thou manifest thyself unto thy disciples; for
after they had faith, and did speak in thy name, thou didst show
thyself unto them in great power.

Ether 12:32
 32 And I also remember that thou hast said that thou hast
prepared a house for man, yea, even among the mansions of thy
Father, in which man might have a more excellent hope; wherefore
man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the place
which thou hast prepared.

Ether 12:33
 33 And again, I remember that thou hast said that thou hast
loved the world, even unto the laying down of thy life for the
world, that thou mightest take it again to prepare a place for
the children of men.

Ether 12:34
 34 And now I know that this love which thou hast had for the
children of men is charity; wherefore, except men shall have
charity they cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared
in the mansions of thy Father.

Ether 12:35
 35 Wherefore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if
the Gentiles have not charity, because of our weakness, that thou
wilt prove them, and take away their talent, yea, even that which
they have received, and give unto them who shall have more
abundantly.

Ether 12:36
 36 And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would
give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have charity.

Ether 12:37
 37 And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: If they have
not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful;
wherefore, thy garments shall be made clean. And because thou
hast seen thy weakness thou shalt be made strong, even unto the
sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions
of my Father.

Ether 12:38
 38 And now I, Moroni, bid farewell unto the Gentiles, yea, and
also unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall meet before the
judgment-seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my
garments are not spotted with your blood.

Ether 12:39
 39 And then shall ye know that I have seen Jesus, and that he
hath talked with me face to face, and that he told me in plain
humility, even as a man telleth another in mine own language,
concerning these things;

Ether 12:40
 40 And only a few have I written, because of my weakness in
writing.

Ether 12:41
 41 And now, I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the
prophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the
Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which
beareth record of them, may be and abide in you forever. Amen.

