Ether 8
Chapter 8

Ether 8:1
 1 And it came to pass that he begat Omer, and Omer reigned in
his stead. And Omer begat Jared; and Jared begat sons and
daughters.

Ether 8:2
 2 And Jared rebelled against his father, and came and dwelt in
the land of Heth. And it came to pass that he did flatter many
people, because of his cunning words, until he had gained the
half of the kingdom.

Ether 8:3
 3 And when he had gained the half of the kingdom he gave battle
unto his father, and he did carry away his father into captivity,
and did make him serve in captivity;

Ether 8:4
 4 And now, in the days of the reigns of Omer he was in captivity
the half of his days. And it came to pass that he begat sons and
daughters among whom were Esrom and Coriantumr;

Ether 8:5
 5 And they were exceedingly angry because of the doings of Jared
their brother, insomuch that they did raise an army and gave
battle unto Jared. And it came to pass that they did give battle
unto him by night.

Ether 8:6
 6 And it came to pass that when they had slain the army of Jared
they were about to slay him also; and he plead with them that
they would not slay him, and he would give up the kingdom unto
his father. And it came to pass that they did grant unto him his
life.

Ether 8:7
 7 And now Jared became exceedingly sorrowful because of the loss
of the kingdom, for he had set his heart upon the kingdom and
upon the glory of the world.

Ether 8:8
 8 Now the daughter of Jared being exceedingly expert, and seeing
the sorrows of her father, thought to devise a plan whereby she
could redeem the kingdom unto her father.

Ether 8:9
 9 Now the daughter of Jared was exceedingly fair. And it came
to pass that she did talk with her father, and said unto him:
Whereby hath my father so much sorrow? Hath he not read the
record which our fathers brought across the great deep? Behold,
is there not an account concerning them of old, that they by
their secret plans did obtain kingdoms and great glory?

Ether 8:10
 10 And now, therefore, let my father send for Akish, the son of
Kimnor; and behold, I am fair, and I will dance before him, and I
will please him, that he will desire me to wife; wherefore if he
shall desire of thee that ye shall give unto him me to wife, then
shall ye say: I will give her if ye will bring unto me the head
of my father, the king.

Ether 8:11
 11 And now Omer was a friend to Akish; wherefore, when Jared had
sent for Akish, the daughter of Jared danced before him that she
pleased him, insomuch that he desired her to wife. And it came
to pass that he said unto Jared: Give her unto me to wife.

Ether 8:12
 12 And Jared said unto him: I will give her unto you, if ye will
bring unto me the head of my father, the king.

Ether 8:13
 13 And it came to pass that Akish gathered in unto the house of
Jared all his kinsfolk, and said unto them: Will ye swear unto me
that ye will be faithful unto me in the thing which I shall
desire of you?

Ether 8:14
 14 And it came to pass that they all sware unto him, by the God
of heaven, and also by the heavens, and also by the earth, and by
their heads, that whoso should vary from the assistance which
Akish desired should lose his head; and whoso should divulge
whatsoever thing Akish made known unto them, the same should lose
his life.

Ether 8:15
 15 And it came to pass that thus they did agree with Akish. And
Akish did administer unto them the oaths which were given by them
of old who also sought power, which had been handed down even
from Cain, who was a murderer from the beginning.

Ether 8:16
 16 And they were kept up by the power of the devil to administer
these oaths unto the people, to keep them in darkness, to help
such as sought power to gain power, and to murder, and to
plunder, and to lie, and to commit all manner of wickedness and
whoredoms.

Ether 8:17
 17 And it was the daughter of Jared who put it into his heart to
search up these things of old; and Jared put it into the heart of
Akish; wherefore, Akish administered it unto his kindred and
friends, leading them away by fair promises to do whatsoever
thing he desired.

Ether 8:18
 18 And it came to pass that they formed a secret combination,
even as they of old; which combination is most abominable and
wicked above all, in the sight of God;

Ether 8:19
 19 For the Lord worketh not in secret combinations, neither doth
he will that man should shed blood, but in all things hath
forbidden it, from the beginning of man.

Ether 8:20
 20 And now I, Moroni, do not write the manner of their oaths and
combinations, for it hath been made known unto me that they are
had among all people, and they are had among the Lamanites.

Ether 8:21
 21 And they have caused the destruction of this people of whom I
am now speaking, and also the destruction of the people of Nephi.

Ether 8:22
 22 And whatsoever nation shall uphold such secret combinations,
to get power and gain, until they shall spread over the nation,
behold, they shall be destroyed; for the Lord will not suffer
that the blood of his saints, which shall be shed by them, shall
always cry unto him from the ground for vengeance upon them and
yet he avenge them not.

Ether 8:23
 23 Wherefore, O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these
things should be shown unto you, that thereby ye may repent of
your sins, and suffer not that these murderous combinations shall
get above you, which are built up to get power and gain--and the
work, yea, even the work of destruction come upon you, yea, even
the sword of the justice of the Eternal God shall fall upon you,
to your overthrow and destruction if ye shall suffer these things
to be.

Ether 8:24
 24 Wherefore, the Lord commandeth you, when ye shall see these
things come among you that ye shall awake to a sense of your
awful situation, because of this secret combination which shall
be among you; or wo be unto it, because of the blood of them who
have been slain; for they cry from the dust for vengeance upon
it, and also upon those who built it up.

Ether 8:25
 25 For it cometh to pass that whoso buildeth it up seeketh to
overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries; and
it bringeth to pass the destruction of all people, for it is
built up by the devil, who is the father of all lies; even that
same liar who beguiled our first parents, yea, even that same
liar who hath caused man to commit murder from the beginning; who
hath hardened the hearts of men that they have murdered the
prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out from the beginning.

Ether 8:26
 26 Wherefore, I, Moroni, am commanded to write these things that
evil may be done away, and that the time may come that Satan may
have no power upon the hearts of the children of men, but that
they may be persuaded to do good continually, that they may come
unto the fountain of all righteousness and be saved.

