Ether 4
Chapter 4

Ether 4:1
 1 And the Lord commanded the brother of Jared to go down out of
the mount from the presence of the Lord, and write the things
which he had seen; and they were forbidden to come unto the
children of men until after that he should be lifted up upon the
cross; and for this cause did king Mosiah keep them, that they
should not come unto the world until after Christ should show
himself unto his people.

Ether 4:2
 2 And after Christ truly had showed himself unto his people he
commanded that they should be made manifest.

Ether 4:3
 3 And now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief; and
there is none save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected
the gospel of Christ; therefore I am commanded that I should hide
them up again in the earth.

Ether 4:4
 4 Behold, I have written upon these plates the very things which
the brother of Jared saw; and there never were greater things
made manifest than those which were made manifest unto the
brother of Jared.

Ether 4:5
 5 Wherefore the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have
written them. And he commanded me that I should seal them up;
and he also hath commanded that I should seal up the
interpretation thereof; wherefore I have sealed up the
interpreters, according to the commandment of the Lord.

Ether 4:6
 6 For the Lord said unto me: They shall not go forth unto the
Gentiles until the day that they shall repent of their iniquity,
and become clean before the Lord.

Ether 4:7
 7 And in that day that they shall exercise faith in me, saith
the Lord, even as the brother of Jared did, that they may become
sanctified in me, then will I manifest unto them the things which
the brother of Jared saw, even to the unfolding unto them all my
revelations, saith Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of
the heavens and of the earth, and all things that in them are.

Ether 4:8
 8 And he that will contend against the word of the Lord, let him
be accursed; and he that shall deny these things, let him be
accursed; for unto them will I show no greater things, saith
Jesus Christ; for I am he who speaketh.

Ether 4:9
 9 And at my command the heavens are opened and are shut; and at
my word the earth shall shake; and at my command the inhabitants
thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire.

Ether 4:10
 10 And he that believeth not my words believeth not my
disciples; and if it so be that I do not speak, judge ye; for ye
shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the last day.

Ether 4:11
 11 But he that believeth these things which I have spoken, him
will I visit with the manifestations of my Spirit, and he shall
know and bear record. For because of my Spirit he shall know
that these things are true; for it persuadeth men to do good.

Ether 4:12
 12 And whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do good is of me; for
good cometh of none save it be of me. I am the same that leadeth
men to all good; he that will not believe my words will not
believe me--that I am; and he that will not believe me will not
believe the Father who sent me. For behold, I am the Father, I
am the light, and the life, and the truth of the world.

Ether 4:13
 13 Come unto me, O ye Gentiles, and I will show unto you the
greater things, the knowledge which is hid up because of
unbelief.

Ether 4:14
 14 Come unto me, O ye house of Israel, and it shall be made
manifest unto you how great things the Father hath laid up for
you, from the foundation of the world; and it hath not come unto
you, because of unbelief.

Ether 4:15
 15 Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth
cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness, and
hardness of heart, and blindness of mind, then shall the great
and marvelous things which have been hid up from the foundation
of the world from you--yea, when ye shall call upon the Father in
my name, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then shall ye
know that the Father hath remembered the covenant which he made
unto your fathers, O house of Israel.

Ether 4:16
 16 And then shall my revelations which I have caused to be
written by my servant John be unfolded in the eyes of all the
people. Remember, when ye see these things, ye shall know that
the time is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very
deed.

Ether 4:17
 17 Therefore, when ye shall receive this record ye may know that
the work of the Father has commenced upon all the face of the
land.

Ether 4:18
 18 Therefore, repent all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me,
and believe in my gospel, and be baptized in my name; for he that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth
not shall be damned; and signs shall follow them that believe in
my name.

Ether 4:19
 19 And blessed is he that is found faithful unto my name at the
last day, for he shall be lifted up to dwell in the kingdom
prepared for him from the foundation of the world. And behold it
is I that hath spoken it. Amen.

