Moroni 6
Chapter 6

Moroni 6:1
 1 And now I speak concerning baptism. Behold, elders, priests,
and teachers were baptized; and they were not baptized save they
brought forth fruit meet that they were worthy of it.

Moroni 6:2
 2 Neither did they receive any unto baptism save they came forth
with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and witnessed unto the
church that they truly repented of all their sins.

Moroni 6:3
 3 And none were received unto baptism save they took upon them
the name of Christ, having a determination to serve him to the
end.

Moroni 6:4
 4 And after they had been received unto baptism, and were
wrought upon and cleansed by the power of the Holy Ghost, they
were numbered among the people of the church of Christ; and their
names were taken, that they might be remembered and nourished by
the good word of God, to keep them in the right way, to keep them
continually watchful unto prayer, relying alone upon the merits
of Christ, who was the author and the finisher of their faith.

Moroni 6:5
 5 And the church did meet together oft, to fast and to pray, and
to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls.

Moroni 6:6
 6 And they did meet together oft to partake of bread and wine,
in remembrance of the Lord Jesus.

Moroni 6:7
 7 And they were strict to observe that there should be no
iniquity among them; and whoso was found to commit iniquity, and
three witnesses of the church did condemn them before the elders,
and if they repented not, and confessed not, their names were
blotted out, and they were not numbered among the people of
Christ.

Moroni 6:8
 8 But as oft as they repented and sought forgiveness, with real
intent, they were forgiven.

Moroni 6:9
 9 And their meetings were conducted by the church after the
manner of the workings of the Spirit, and by the power of the
Holy Ghost; for as the power of the Holy Ghost led them whether
to preach, or to exhort, or to pray, or to supplicate, or to
sing, even so it was done.

